Just the other day, some people inside
DoD Intel and I was told one of the
things came out of the water medium
and zapped hit somebody. Woo!
They think, "How could they get here?"
It's like, "Well, are they coming here
from the planet over there or are they
coming from branch space not that far
away?
Who's in charge? Who's like the ultimate
gatekeeper?" It feels like there is it's
this like disjointed cargo cult.
Any Imperial system when it runs into
trouble, first thing it does is it
cannibalizes the periphery.
Things seem to be kind of unraveling
quickly. Someone basically has, you
know, virtually matrix us.
Yes. I think the brain itself is
probably, you know, maybe a room
temperature quantum system.
It was communication with some NHI. It
was like, what's going on? Like, why are
you here or something? It was like CI
wizards are messing with the timeline.
He became convinced that there was kind
of this secret branch of physics. I
don't know how conspiratorial it is if
you just look at all of human history.
We have classified entire areas of
fundamental physics before. Don't think
we can do the same for AI. what is the
nature of the interaction between human
society, human institutions, and
non-human intelligence? And they said
it's a triangle. AI, quantum, and the
grush stuff. What the hell is actually
happening?
Here with Matthew Pines, uh, who's
quickly become one of my favorite
thinkers on the UFO topic and I I think
in general as far as tracking what's
going on in the US and the world today.
And so I'm really excited to have you.
You first came on my radar. You went on
a show called Mr. Obnoxious. And I
recommend everybody uh listen to this
cuz it's such a cogent synthesis of
what's happening in UAP UFO world today
from a legislative perspective uh how
you view uh kind of you know control
systems over the topic and also you know
public sentiment but you also you come
from kind of an interesting you have a
crypto background and uh you're director
of intelligence at Sentinel one and so I
thought this was a very fitting week for
us to talk uh we've had a you know very
conclusive election results uh and
things are shifting in a in a in a
particular direction with the election
of Trump and so uh how how are you
viewing the election?
Yeah. So I try not to you know read into
what most people look at in terms of uh
exit polls or demographic shifts but try
to think like what's the vibe like how
would we look at this sort of the
through the lens of American history. Um
and it seems like the closest uh analogy
is sort of America's paristrika which as
you know paristroka in the Soviet system
came with glass right so reform and and
and opening up um and I think that is
sort of maybe the closest template to
look to to kind of think through the the
shift that we're going through. Um and
you know in terms of the canonical kind
of political economy that we're we're
witnessing um evolve in real time is
sort of this uh new anti-establishment
uh kind of this uh heterogeneous
alignment of of you know different
political forces uh you know going after
and essentially displacing or in the
process potentially displacing kind of
the old establishment. Um and in the
Soviet system this was sort of you know
you had kind of the old establishment
somewhat decaying institutional
structures that were no longer able to
kind of keep pace with the rate of
change and external events and sort of
an internal sense of um of sclerosis and
that was coming uh under twin pressures
both from within a sense of like
indogenous reform. we need to sort of
get ahead of the curve as well as
external pressures, right? That wanted
to break that system uh from the
outside. And I think that's kind of the
the the tension, the friction that we're
seeing play out is, you know, external
forces that want to essentially break
or, you know, reset to a certain extent
these uh decaying institutional
structures. And then maybe a competing
mode which is like the folks that are
currently kind of that the avatars of
sort of that um managerial technocracy
that are you know trying to find a uh
trying trying to find a balance between
uh tearing everything down versus sort
of internal reform. I think that was
essentially the like the implicit fight
and it seems like the the you know more
structural paristroka argument won out
right.
Yeah. And that's I think what we're
going to head into uh is this era of you
and know how how successful it will be,
how controlled or orderly versus, you
know, messy it will be is you know
remains to be seen. Um but I think that
is you know I think the current the
current uh phase shift that we're we're
heading into.
What do you think? Because this is an
open question for me. You know, like
last time around, Trump got elected. He
promised to quote unquote drain the
swamp and then he goes on to hire Millie
and uh John Bolton and like a lot of
usual suspects when it comes to, you
know, Washington, what he would probably
now call swamp land or whatever. Uh and
and Bolton even, I think, is on air
saying like, I I tricked Trump into
hiring me or something. And a lot of,
you know, Trump, the end of Trump's
campaign was sort of, you know, um
saying he's not going to hire these
people.
Does he just hire a lot of the same kind
of managerial technocrats or is this
truly a new coalition of your, you know,
Tulsi's, Vivx, you know, RFK juniors
that do kind of quote unquote drain the
swamp?
I think remains to be seen. I think
you're probably going to see a huge
amount of churn over over the transition
as to see which of these different, you
know, factional um power bases, you
know, come out on top and in various
administrative bureaucracies that get
appointments and whatnot. Um, and if you
look back at the, you know, the the
Soviet version of this, you know, Parisa
was was a similar alliance of kind of,
um, you know, internal technocrats, uh,
deep sort of quote deep state like
security state figures from the KGB and
and sort of oligarchs, right? Uh now our
version of that is sort of you know this
funhouse mirror uh where you have kind
of this alliance of some maybe um sort
of uh ejected technocrats folks that
were technocrats at one point but were
sort of turned against the systems they
were sort of forged in aligned with you
know our version of the of sort of these
tech oligarchs um you know Elon Teal
etc. And you know I think there is also
a power base inside what what you call
our our security state services that um
that are definitely also on board right
and so I think this is you know those
are very loose diverse coalitions I
don't know how stable they are they
weren't that stable in the Soviet system
uh as it went through its its pretty
tumultuous um transformation and they're
always you know the the is always high
wire acts right in terms of how do they
manage to um do the kind of controlled
reform and then you essentially
springboard right into uh you know to
sort of reinvigorate renovate these
institutions um you know kind of strip
out you know the the the the sort of the
rotten floorboards but the overall
infrastructure of the house remains
intact and then they renovate and it's a
beautiful new house. you know, we start
tearing through walls. Sometimes you hit
something that's loadbearing, right? And
so in any process like this, there's
inherent risk.
There's inherent risk that you could
just you could hit something that's
loadbearing in the system uh and then
you're deal and then you're dealing with
a crisis. And that's why they're trying
to figure out, okay, what's the right
balance between the folks that want to
like burn it all down versus kind of the
traditional technocrats that come in to
fill it out, right? And I think Trump
has the sense that in his first
administration, it was it was
imbalanced, right? In a sense, it was he
was kind of cocooned. a lot of his his
initiatives were kind of um smothered
and I think he's now going to swing in
the other direction. I think his default
is going to be much more to sort of let
loose the VEX and the RFKs and the
Elons. Um but we'll see. I mean I also
look at these as like these are very big
personalities, right? So the one
observation I hadn't seen too many
people make that was always curious to
me about Trump's like especially the the
you know the more recent part of the
campaign was just how many big
personalities he brought on board. Yeah.
like he's a big personality. Like he has
a huge ego. He's he needs to be in the
spotlight, right? And yet he was somehow
comfortable. Yeah.
Sharing the spotlight with these huge
personalities that command a lot of
attention. Elon, these guys, you know,
they have their own platform. They have
their own almost like somewhat
equivalent power base to a certain
extent. And that's that's a different
mode when you know first, you know,
Trump 1.0 would brookke nobody like
that, right? At you know, he had to be
the center of the of of the attention.
Yeah. You could easily see a world where
Elon and Trump have some major public
falling out. And like what what happens
in that world? I don't quite know
exactly. Yeah. That's the thing is like
everything now is copathetic. You know,
they got the energy of the wind. They're
all aligned, etc. Yeah. Fast forward 6
months and you're you're actually
governing, right? You actually have to
make hard trade-offs. There's got to be,
you know, certain priorities um that
don't get that don't get uh everyone uh
that don't check off everyone's boxes.
And that's where you'll see the friction
potentially emerge.
Is there change you're more bullish on
and change you're more bearish on? So
it's like the make America healthy again
movement reforming, you know, the FDA
visav both food and drugs,
getting us out of wars,
crypto reform,
you know, UFOs and JFK like uh how would
you slap probabilities on, you know, all
of these things? That's probably a very
hard question.
Yeah. I mean, well, because it it's
almost like looking at the Soviet
system, it was not it was chaotic,
right? And and I think it was very much
um I think I think we should expect a
certain element of chaos. Um not
necessarily like complete disaster, but
just the the idea of being able to
predict what's going to happen the next
day, the next week, the next month, like
that will not be feasible, right? I
think when you're going through this era
where those two you know major
structural impulses are now being um
pushed in terms of paristrika kind of a
structural reform it's kind of coming in
like a hostile force and you know
purging essentially elements of the
bureaucracies like there's going to be
just it's going to get really messy be
my baseline expectation at the same time
that you have you know and I think Trump
just gave like a three minute speech
where it was just like it it was
basically him announcing glass notes
right we're gonna have truth and
reconciliation commissions we're gonna
you know, we're going to un we're going
to unseal all these records. We're going
to like, you know, peel back the the
curtain on all this stuff.
I mean, that's basically him announcing
glasses, right? Um, now once you do
that, right, there's a reason why I
think those things haven't been made
public for various reasons, but it's
like because they would create, you
know, a lot of uncertainty and a lot of
um uncomfortable questions uh to go back
and there's going to be just
a lot for us all to have to kind of deal
with and process all at the same time.
So it might just be overwhelming, right?
Levels of just sort of information flow,
disclosures of various information as
well as just the the normal pillars of
the institutional bureaucracies being
being uh sort of you know facing a
pretty severe test.
Do you think like snapshot three months
from today we all know who killed JFK?
I mean I I think that RFK will be
rooting to dig that out, right? Um, I
think, you know, this is
I think I I would I would say 5050. Uh,
I I never want to say 100% because you
never know. Um, but I'd say, you know,
this there's going to be a lot that's
going to come out. The question is
though, like how much it's going to come
with context. Like usually these sorts
of historical questions. This is almost
like a mirror image uh or it's sort of
um isomeorphic to the UAP question in
the sense of how much of this is
catastrophic, right? Disclosure, which
is all comes out all at once.
There's no sort of narrative management
incorporates it into their mental models
understand the sky isn't falling. Um
versus you know there is a
you know here it is there you go deal
with it. Um
and I think there's going to be twin
impulses in different power structures
inside the Trump administration that
will be pushing in those different
directions. Right now it seems like the
just let it all out impulse is is has
the upper hand. Uh-huh. And that seems
to be, you know, what what I would
expect from the sort of surprise um uh
magnitude of the win, right? I think
they were relatively confident they
would win the presidency, but I don't
think they expected or were banking on
having unified government. Um and so now
that they do, the sort of
aperture of possibility spaces have now
sort of shifted
and now that's sort of that has a
momentum to it and that momentum will
likely play out until it, you know,
until it triggers, you know, other other
problems potentially and then they might
We might try to dial it back, but right
now we seem to be in that momentum
towards open up everything.
Yeah. And what do you think happens on
the kind of geopolitical or foreign
policy front? You know, I feel like
Trump maybe the more armchair thing that
like I would always kind of disagree
with with Trump on in his last campaign
um was that he would he would always say
things like, you know, uh Russia Ukraine
wouldn't have happened if I were
president. like you know uh Israel you
know wouldn't be sort of blowing up if
you know uh if if if I were president
and I I think on the Israel you know
case he the Abraham accords which he
engaged in were actually really positive
and then you know maybe he did you know
Putin did respect him more or something
so directionally maybe I agree with him
but like
when it comes to the details and
disentangling from these sort of
conflicts I think it's just way more
complicated you know visav US interests
in Ukraine um you know our relationship
with Israel historic ly and the sort of
leverage there,
it just it it doesn't feel like who's
president really might even matter all
that much. And so what what do you think
happens there? Things are heating up
with China, obviously.
I mean, I think it's not settled which
direction his foreign policy will take
across these different theaters. I think
it's pretty clear Ukraine will be a
negotiated settlement. Um probably on
unfavorable terms, you know, relative
to, you know, a counterfactual for for
Ukraine. But I think that's pretty much
a clear signal that I've seen is is
yeah, they're going to uh reach some
sort of um settlement and then it's
going to be about, you know, hundreds of
billions of dollars of of reconstruction
contracts.
I think he's also sent a signal to to BB
that um you know, he can go gloves off
until he gets elected and then he wants
him to wrap up the conflict. So I'd
expect a surge in in Lebanon over the
next, you know, month or two and then
that will that will wind down and then
we'll see what sorts of quote maximum
pressure campaign gets restarted against
Iran. Again, you know, unclear how how
that would whether reach a another
negotiation settlement or whether, you
know, he would do kind of his
traditional Trumpian sort of
brinkmanship, right? Sort of like with
North Korea, threaten nuclear war, fire
and fury,
take us to the pretty pretty close and
then essentially become best buddies,
right? walk across the DMZ. So, you
know, it's like, you know, I I think his
brinksmanship and and you know, kind of
uncertainty, he'd be even said like he
would bring Bolton into the room because
his his his interlocular head of state
would know Bolton is like a Warhawk
maniac who would just ready to pull the
trigger at a second's notice.
And so, the fact that Bolton is in the
room is sort of like a negotiating
tactic, right? Like, don't let I got
this guy pushing for war. Like, I would
rather not fight you, but like he's he's
ready to go, right? You got your got
your buddy over there. Well, he's a
little bit of a loose cannon. cop bad
cop.
Um so we'll see like a lot of this is p
is is driven by by personnel. China of
course is the elephant in the room. I
think there is still a big debate um uh
even within the different Trump factions
over like what should be the approach
towards towards China. there are some
like you know very China hawks um that
want to sort of pivot away from these
other theaters negotiate those
settlements sort of concentrate our
resources
uh to contain China to deter China and
there's others who would just want to
basically like this great power
competition this increasing um sort of
militancy and sort of tit fortat uh
sanctions export controls etc they're
bad for business and we should just do a
grand bargain with China that might
involve subtly selling Taiwan out but
you know at the end of the day it's a
dealm and a deal resets, resolves
tensions, etc. So, I think there was
that is for me the biggest geopolitical
macro question is which of those
different China opinions kind of kind of
plays out. Um
yeah, he had a real split in his cabinet
the last time around between uh kind of,
you know, Wilbur Ross types, you know,
he's close with uh uh Schwarzman and
stuff and like a lot Schwarzman wasn't
in his cabinet, but like you had these
guys who were like very pro-China and
then you had all these hawks who were uh
you know extremely you Josh Rogan book,
Chaos Under Heaven, that describes this
sort of split. Um, and so yeah, I'm
curious to see what wins out this.
Yeah. And right now, I mean, I've I've
been asking these questions. Other
people that you would think would know
were asking questions like, who's who's
going to be Trump's China team? And it's
like, anybody. Like, Trump doesn't know
who his China team is going to be,
right? Like, this is the this is the
moment where all these different
factions, all the different people
jockeying for for cabinet positions and
other senior appointments, the knives
are out, right? They're just coming
after each other, right? You have like
Peter Navaro and Matt Pottinger,
all these guys who were super hawkish
and then Yeah. And so Michael Pillsbury
and then and then Yeah. And then you
have and it seemed like it it sort of
netted out that Trump was kind of
hawkish on the trade stuff, but then he
was kind of lulled to sleep on COVID and
he had all these assurances from Xi that
he wouldn't, you know, invade Taiwan and
he was kind of tricked on the the PPE
question with CO and so yeah and and it
turned into this sort of schizophrenic
foreign policy or something.
Yeah. But I also think on the part of
this is going to be down like
geopolitics is often deeply connected to
these economic and monetary shifts and
um there is I think
somewhat nent but I've I've seen memos
written that sort of try to codify what
would be like a dramatic geoeconomic
shift that would be triggered in 2025.
And this isn't even the Bitcoin stuff.
That would be that'd be like icing on
that would be like, you know, kerosene
on the fire, but like a Nixon style
shock where that has essentially a
larger strategic logic, which is
essentially um the US dominant geo
geopolitical and economic position is is
under challenge, right? We both have um
domestic uh indogenous instabilities in
terms of our financial system, the
increasing debt um costs uh that we're
going to be committed to the next few
years
and a sense of increasing challenge from
uh innovation and industrial ecosystem
in Eurasia, you know, principally
centered in China and this loose
alliance of Eurasian
uh countries, Russia, Iran, North Korea,
China that actually have significant
industrial technological um and sort of
uh and energy resources and they're they
want to re they want to challenge and
sort of upset the legacy kind of
international economic and political uh
geopolitical order. So the logic is sort
of okay how do you like hold the line
right uh between kind of these this uh
you know this legacy you know uh
hegemonic system the US has built up um
and and these sort of rising sort of um
revantious challengers and the play is
essentially to sort of uh uh make more
explicit the function of the US as as a
global empire right as as an imperial
dollar system and where we essentially
control the access to dollar credit and
increasingly we can sort of gate access
to our advanced technology ecosystems or
AI models and and the associated
infrastructure. And you can imagine him
setting up essentially a tech and tariff
and security um umbrella where there's a
there's a there's a club and if you want
to get into the club that you're going
to have to pay, right? So if you want to
get access to our AI infrastructure
models, if you want to get access to,
you know, dollar system in a favorable
fashion, swap lines, etc. If you want to
um you know, have us reinforce and not
abandon our security commitments to you,
well, you're going to have to pay. And
that payment might might take the form
of essentially a coerced swap of either
either or and their gold reserves, their
FX reserves, which usually, you know,
short-term uh bills um for century
bonds. So that would help us term out
our debt, right? It would it would
relieve some of this acute interest
burden. It would, you know, there's
already some talk about, you know, Trump
being trust, you know, like Liz Trust
when like there was a guilts market
crisis, right? M
and then she had to abandon some of her
political um uh uh sort of you know
projects because you know she had
basically had to deal with the
disorderly um
you know guilt market and so already you
see the the 10-year the long end of the
yield curve starting to spike.
And so the question is okay how do you
have essentially do geopolitical like
yield curve control? Well, you force
those foreign pools of capital,
sovereign wealth funds, etc. to swap
their short-term uh, you know, exposures
in their gold for century bots, and that
importantly would be non-marketable,
right? So, they can't just sell them.
They can only uh, you know, repo them at
the Fed for par dollar liquidity if they
run into any sort of uh, dollar funding
issues. And that would be a a pretty
high leverage play. And then if you get
some of their gold and you can term out
your debt, then you can do things like
say remmonetize gold, right, which is
currently just like marked to, you know,
1970s uh, you know, what $35 an ounce.
Mhm.
So if you remark gold, say to $5,000 an
ounce,
you just now can, you know, credit the
Treasury general account with a trillion
dollars of liquidity.
Um, and you can do a lot with that. You
could buy Bitcoin. You could do
strategic investments in a manufacturing
industrial base. um you know just you
know you could fund a lot of those sorts
of uh industrial projects um and then
threaten I don't think he's gonna do
universal tariffs but threaten sort of
company specific tariffs right to sort
of intimidate and sort of you know
threaten them and yeah hey if you're
going to reshore Frenchshore to Mexico
well actually no you're in a French
shore to Ohio now
right and then maybe we'll do some
complicated you know backdoor subsidy
right but like we'll get the the thing
domestic um so I think that's what I
would expect is this but to do that
you're essentially you're you're kind of
pulling the rug on the Treasury market,
right, which is the foundation of US
geopolitical dominance the last 70
years. So, we'd essentially be admitting
that the jig is up that like yes, like
we're effectively imposing financial
repression and capital controls on our
on our on our allies and partners, but
that's what we got to do because we got
to win, right? And and then there might
be a whole separate, you know, subplot
of this where Bitcoin gets monetized
alongside gold or even instead of gold
um but would have a similar effect maybe
without the explicit geopolitical
coercion because we don't actually have
to like force this swap. we can just
essentially, you know, rapidly monetize
Bitcoin at the expense of their existing
holdings and then maybe, you know, defay
some of the domestic costs. So, it's
mostly overseas, you know, financial
repression.
Like any imperial system when it runs
into trouble, right? Or it's getting
it's getting challenged. The first thing
it does is it cannibalizes the periphery
to sort of reinforce the core. It's like
you all have, you know, you get
collective benefits in theory from being
part of this imperial system. We give
you protection. We secure global trade.
And in exchange though, you know, we
have to pay for this military that's
going to deploy and secure these trade
routes.
Again, it's a high-risisk play because
do we actually have the juice to do
that, right? Um can we actually tell the
Europeans to hand over their gold? Uh
can we actually, you know, commit to the
security side of it? Can we It seems
like in the the horn um in the, you
know, of Africa and the Middle East that
like the Houthies can basically block uh
a major maritime trading route
indefinitely. So it's like these are
like where the paper plans at, you know,
kind of the elite backroom door level,
you know, ultimately have to be
implemented and executed in the real
world across all the instruments of
national power. And I don't know if
we've got the competency to do that. Um
that's a fascinating strategy though and
and uh Trump who's not a fan of of NAFTA
it almost sounds like a modern modern
version of NAFTA where it's like you get
the same sort of you know maybe defense
opice or whatever but uh very different
kind of you know monetary relationship
and the UFO thing might play into that
which is you know on on the margin if
it's like if we even want to hint that
hey you know we've got some special
stuff
like you know
you might want to pay to get into this
club
right it's like a little inducer to it's
like, hey, you know, you might be
doubting us. Maybe we're, you know, a
bit a bit a bit
chaotic. Maybe we don't have the the
naval production juice that we used to
have, but we got some special stuff
here. And so, you want if you even want
the hope of of getting access to it, you
got to get into the club.
That's kind of immediately where my mind
went when we're talking about AI is like
we've we've had conversations about
possible, you know, secret off the books
physics and, you know, materials, you
know, all this stuff comes up in UFO
land. If we have access to that
alongside AI, that's a pretty
interesting suite of asymmetric
advantage when it comes to defense and
all sorts of technology.
And so do you think you you almost seem
to think that this might get used as
leverage where it's like you you get
access to the goods, but you have to
play nicely. I'm trying to mentally
model Trump as much as I can, right? And
this guy, he's not a guy I think truly
motivated about these cosmic questions.
I don't know if he even, you know, has a
framework for it.
His uncle John might have been,
but I think he he understands almost
viscerally like what's a good bargaining
chip, like where where does he how what
leverage points does he have, right? And
I think if he if he's I believe he's
been briefed on some aspects of these
legacy programs
and of course, you know, there's
speculation exactly how much he knows,
etc., but I'm pretty confident he knows
at least broad contours that this is
real. Um, I think his first reaction is
going to be, okay, how do I use this,
right? How do I leverage this in in my
larger, you know, in my larger play
here? And I think it would be pretty
obvious, like pretty, you know, ace in
the hole sort of leverage um if you play
it right cuz I don't know what other
second and third order um details of
that story that come into play, right?
There might be other other equities and
other, you know, like little Lzando
hints of like other drivers of this. Um,
so I think it's an overdetermined
question, but it just in this narrow
slice of kind of where this could sort
of insert or how could it play into the
geopolitical dynamics of a Trump
administration, I think it would um, you
know, have a it would be seen as
something to to leverage in a certain
way.
Yeah. when he understands leverage and
he's a he's a good dealmaker and I think
you know say what you will about the guy
but
uh historically I think a lot of his
deals have made more sense on if he he
criticizes deals made by the other side
whether it was you know uh the Paris
Accords or the Ben Rhodess you know
Obama Iran nuclear deal which you could
say is partially responsible for where
we are now and Trump does seem you know
unpredictable it seems like he throws
some some volatility into the system or
something, but he acts very on behalf of
the US, I think, in a in an aggressive
way that he's just used to doing from
his business career.
And I I think he is he is sort of good
at that. So, it would make sense, right,
if if you have all this leverage that
you're not aware of in the form of the
UFO thing.
Ideally, you'd be interested in what's
going on there.
But if I if I accept that premise
though, it does make kind of a a loose
prediction of what form of disclosure to
expect, right? you would expect the form
of disclosure that would maximize that
type of leverage,
right? So then you'd have to make some
conditional assessments of okay, what in
the universe of stipulated information
that's behind the curtain, which subset
of the information would would acrue
maximum leverage in the strategy and
which one would would not and then I
would expect that subset to be the part
that gets released and and the other
information to be kept kept secret.
Well, is it is it like a is the nuclear
thing a good analogy where it's like you
have nuclear trade secrets but nuclear
physics is sort of broadly disclo
disclosed or is that a counter lesson
where it's like no Claus Fuches like
took our you know actual nuclear trade
secrets we were not we were too loose
with that you know maybe maybe we should
be you know more buttoned up when it
comes to UFOs.
Well this yeah this the the key answer
to that question is really premised on
how much knowledge andor capability do
we assume has already been leaked.
Yep. Right. Um, and if you read the
language in, you know, it's come out of
the the Senate, you know, in order to
mitigate the possibility of of foreign
technology surprise, the US government
must broaden awareness of quote
historical exotic technology anticedants
previously provided by the federal
government for research and development
purposes. Right. So if you read if you
parse that line, it's like in order to
make it the possibility of foreign
technology surprise.
Yeah. Meaning in order to make it the
possibility that China and you know
demonstrates they've got some stuff
figured out, the federal government must
broaden awareness of historical exotic
technology anticedants. You know the
stuff in Lockheed's basement.
Um uh that had been previously provided
by the federal government for research
and development purposes.
Yep.
Didn't say provided to to who? It's you
know the locked basement. Um, but that's
basically that is like the like the
distilled logic of at least the Senate's
view of this of this trade-off. Um,
meaning we've kept the stuff under lock
and key to do re R&D for many decades,
but now we have to broaden awareness of
those programs to mitigate China getting
the jump on us. Yeah, that's basically
the story which is which is an admission
that China has a baseline level of
knowledge, right? Because in the world
in which they don't, you then you just
keep the thing locked up in your Indiana
Jones vault. you never talk about it
with anybody, but the world in which
they do it, it becomes this game theory
thing. You need some broader awareness
around the top. You can't have, it's not
adaptive for American national security
to have the average, you know, uh,
precocious STEM student in Kentucky or
whatever is growing up, uh, just
thinking that, you know, string theory
is the only answer and that, you know,
maybe there aren't some more interesting
exotic frameworks and material and all
of that.
Yeah. I mean when the US and the Soviets
really had the only industrial tech
technological and scientific ecosystems
for most of most of the 20th century. Um
and so like all the leading physics
research leading then sort of technology
development transfer was taking place in
relatively controlled statedirected um
ecosystems and you know there was I
think a certain understanding over the
cold war between the US and the Soviet
systems um on those things there's a lot
of you know um also early on in the cold
war there's only so much there's only so
many different branches of the sort of
scientific tree to explore and you had
to spend 10 20 years just filling out
the standard model how of particle
physics and you we could do the whole
separate thing of where it went wrong in
the 70s but then China is now like
exploded on the scene in the last 30
years churning out really good
scientists engineers and a whole
indogenous ecosystem they're doing their
own independent scientific frontier
research right their own space
exploration their own satellites their
own um you know radio receivers
nutrino experiments their like own
quantum stuff like they've got their own
independent they've developed their own
pretty quickly their own independent
scientific and tech tree.
They're going at the dark side of the
moon. Yes. They've launched tons of mass
to space. Yeah.
Yeah. And so from the US's perspective,
like they've managed to contain for the
last 70 years essentially the tech tree
that's branching that was growing
essentially in the world, right? And
then you could prune branches
in various ways. Now there's a new tree
that has sprouted very quickly and is,
you know, exploring and is not being
pruned. And in fact, maybe those those
those branches that we pruned are now
being like supercharged with investment
and you can't do anything about it.
So you've been pruning your tree,
they've been growing their tree.
Yeah.
Like that if that plays out for another
5 10 years, you're going to be in real
trouble.
Yep.
And that's I think was precipitating now
the last 10 years of disclosure stuff.
That's that's always that's my take. I
mean I I've felt like I'm sort of firing
blindly in the space sort of covering it
sometimes where like as you know I've
covered some of the you know possible
branches of physics that have been lost
and I I think I'm doing this patriotic
thing because like I look at the civil
side you know engineering requirements
to build some of these super basic
experiments and I'm like adversaries
have to have that this like snapshot of
what we had you know 70 years ago or
whatever. So, I think publicizing this
stuff is like extremely good net net
benefit. Uh, but it just feels extremely
uncoordinated. Like the whole world I'm
curious to get your take on this. Like
the whole world of UFOs or whatever. I I
would assume there would be like one
dude kind of in charge of like the whole
thing.
And it's they're I think thieftdoms and
gatekeepers to those thiefs, but I don't
think they're well coordinated at all. I
think it's a cargo cult that's been
running for the last 70 years. But
curious to get your take. Yeah, this
telling the historical story in all of
its various chapters is probably beyond
my ken. But like I have a certain um
like 10,000 foot level take which was
you know essentially from World War II
era through like the 60s. um this was
essentially a federal these were these
were federal projects right the vanar
bush era you know coincided you know I'm
sort of my basic um analytical
methodology is sort of what was the um
the structure of the other you know
visible institutions of research
development of government of
intelligence etc and then assume that
the basic level of competence and the
managerial um structures and their
alignment to US democratic power
structures like probably like is is
carries through to these legacy
programs, right? And that, you know,
again, this kind of is consiliant with
what David Grush was saying, saying, how
these kind of were tucked underneath the
architecture of secrecy for the
Manhattan Project,
you know, the um Atomic Energy Act, you
know, that sort of set the institutional
framework for these for these programs
in the 40s and 50s and 60s. And then I
think there was a shift, right? And that
shift, you could speculate about what
was happening behind the curtain, but I
think you could just see the visible
shift that took place in the other
aspects of our institutional and
political economy where it was, you
know, a pretty radical restructuring,
right, of the, you know, it was the
Nixon shock, but then you also had um,
you know, the malaise stagflation in the
70s. You had um, and then you had this
massive transition to sort of uh, global
neoliberalization, right? The the
privatization of a lot of functions. And
you had in the CIA, just to take that as
a concrete example, you had Carter
essentially purge like the entire senior
ranks of the CIA when he came into
office. And what did those hundreds of
senior CIA officers do? Many of whom
were probably presiding over aspects of
the legacy program in an official
capacity, you know, and they were like
managing this on behalf of their, you
know, responsibilities in the federal
government. Now they've been fired,
right? And maybe it was merited. Maybe
they were doing a lot of shady stuff
that the government was like, "We can't
do this anymore. You guys are you guys
are, you know, rotten fruit. we need to
kick you out. You know, those guys
didn't just disappear. They have a lot
of skills. They have a lot of
connections. They know exactly how to
run covert operations,
generate lots of sources of black money,
corrupt and influence senior and very
influential people around the world. And
without, you know, certain skills,
they're going to apply those skills and
then and then but they the critical
distinction is now they don't longer
have an official attachment to an
institutional bureaucracy that's aligned
with, you know, US state interest,
right? And I think that's where it
starts to delaminate and the political
economy, these programs probably then
gets split to a certain extent. There's
the part that the US government is able
to hold on to in some fashion and then
there's the part that they're not able
to hold on to explicitly. And then
there's this sort of uneasy evolution
over many decades. I don't exactly know
how it's evolved in more recent era. Um,
but I think it's pretty clear when you,
you know, read into what David Gush is
saying is that, you know, effectively,
you know, there's certain elements of
the US government that have been sort of
rogue, right? like that and and that
even the defense industrial base um
parts of this collaborators may not be
like Lockheed is involved right as like
Lockheed CEO but like you know
essentially loose networks of of
individuals that um for various reasons
kind of uh associate to manage these
things
and and that's I think the difficult
part is trying to sus out how much of
this and this is why the UP disclosure
act explicitly targeted eminent domain
right for things held in private hands
um and that's I think the The read that
I I I sort of put into all of the sort
of disclosure momentum um and the
official legislation action is like to
first order the interest of the
Gillibbrands and the Rubios etc. for the
last several years has not really been
disclosure, it's been accountability.
Yeah. It's finding out that there's
rogue programs that they had no idea it
were in existence that were controlling
groundbreaking world shaking
information. And their first order of
business is trying to like create
mechanisms to sort of try to get the
official structures of government to
sort of reabsorb and rec take take back
some degree of control over these
activities.
Yep. Yeah. that's more a civilian
oversight question which is like I
actually feel somewhat conflicted about
you know I feel
more sure that like the American
population should understand a broader
deeper ontological truth when it comes
to our reality that that feels like an
obvious like good to me and then where
I'm sort of unsure is like I don't think
Congress is super competent. I was in
that room last year at the the testimony
and it's like
if you were to manipulate or sigh up a
group of people and like you know just
find a really corrupt group of people
like that would be it like these people
they're not very smart
and they're uh you know you can sway
them very easily and like I don't know
if they're more competent than the Lock
Eden Northrup executives. I think I
think people should know about this
stuff and so maybe to to some extent
like
whatever limited hangouts are occurring
visa v these these prime contra
contractors need to speed up be more
effective and better but yeah that would
be my controversial take is like yeah I
you know maybe in 1850
or something I'd be more be bullish
Congress but right now I'm not I think
their 11% approval rating sort of says
it all. So
I mean this is not even a UFO question.
This is basic uh you know political
philosophy which is you know do we in
general defer to uh competent
technocratic managers to make important
decisions on behalf of the rest of us or
do we defer to elected representatives
who are representative of the people who
may not be
very well educated enlightened
technocrats. Right? And this is this is
the this is the age-old question right
of like how do we find a balance in a
modern very sophisticated very complex
society of maintaining a form of
participatory democracy maintaining a
form of government that is inherently
legitimate and accountable to the people
right the government is um of by and for
the people of by and for locked program
managers right um that is the foundation
of our constitutional republic that's
the inherent logic of our social
contract I think to abregate that um you
know willy-nilly would be a would be you
know a one-way ratchet. But I I also
agree with you that like there is there
was a reason why we filled out these
these bureaucracies and these, you know,
technocratic structures in order to
manage the complexity of modern life.
That yeah, the average House Republican
or House Democrat on a subcommittee
who's getting like a 10-minute briefing
from a 24-year-old before the committee
hearing is not the person you want to
make these like important, you know,
structural decisions. But you want to
ideally be like a balance between of
course the people that know that
information and make those decisions
that like they're ultimately accountable
to somebody, right? That if they screw
up, they can get fired, they can be held
to a public tribunal, right? Yeah. Maybe
maybe it's the executive br
Yeah, it it it is it is a tricky
question. I think that bigger possible
issue is the veneer of you know elected
representatives when in fact
which we actually have the participatory
democracy.
Yeah. No, it's post post Citizens
United. I mean, look at Mike Turner who
represents Dayton Ohio and you know has
you know Loy Northrup Boeing on his
quote unquote cap table as his his donor
list. And so it's like uh you know that
he's not a real he's he's acting on on
behalf of oligarchic interests of of
special interests in that case. So
yeah, I mean there's a political
philosopher in the 20th century named uh
Sheldon Woolen who had this idea of sort
of inverted totalitarianism, right? that
like traditional totalitarian structures
that we looked at, you know, had an
obvious hierarchical, you know,
dictatorial um uh arrangement uh of
power. And in our system, it's, you
know, again, this is more on the extreme
who's a kind of extreme progressive kind
of liberal, but like he his diagnosis
was that we've actually constructed for
ourselves like an inverted
totalitarianism where um where we have
the veneer of participated democracy,
but really like the actual structures of
power are quite concentrated. They're
just hidden.
Yes.
Right. They're not on top, they're
underneath. Yes.
Right. And that um that makes it much
more hard to challenge because you know
nobody likes being told what to do by
you know your boss, right? But if your
option set is just inherently
constrained before you come to make a
decision by other by piece by folks or
forces you had no idea existed,
well you can just you can you might not
even know, right? You're just these are
your options A and B pick. Yeah.
Right. R D go.
Do do you know uh Danny Shehan?
This episode is sponsored by Delete Me.
With the 2024 election coming up, online
privacy is no longer a luxury. It's a
necessity. Political polarization is at
an all-time high, and personal
information like your phone number and
address is easy to find online. Sadly,
this opens the door to identity theft,
harassment, or even politically
motivated threats. That's why I trust
Delete Me to remove my personal data
from hundreds of broker sites. They've
already scrubbed a ton of information I
didn't even realize was out there. It's
a simple way to safeguard yourself and
your family from becoming targets. And
if you're into a lot of these crazy
topics, that's always possible. Get 20%
off by going to joindeleteme.com/jesse20
and using the code jessie 20 at
checkout. Thanks to deleteme for
sponsoring today's episode. Use my link
in the description to start protecting
your data today. Uh, I don't know him
personally, but I've obviously I've
watched his Yeah. his uh multiple
three-hour long podcast. Yeah.
Encyclopedic knowledge.
Encyclopedic. And it's like his kind of
worldview. I mean, first off, if you
want to know who killed JFK, you should
listen to, you know, those podcast.
Yeah. His uh the S force and Howard
Hughes getting deputized by by Nixon
under Yeah. All that.
Exactly. which is wild because it to me
it's it feels high probability to be
true because it so comports with priors
I had around you know I read like
Devil's Chess board by you know David
Talbbit and you know I'd watched the
Oliver Stone stuff and I'm like okay
it's like Dulles probably had it out for
for JFK and then it's it's like Danny's
just filling in the details with names
dates a specific chronology so it's
fascinating but to to go to your point
around you know the woolen's point
around a small group being actually
insidiously kind of in control. Uh
Shihan's entire
history of American intelligence at
least you know post OSS is that the CIA
got formed uh at the behest of this
Brown brothers Haramman group this
investment group
where on the cap table you had all the
robber barons. So all the kind of
oligopolistic you know control families
or whatever in the US uh uh uh basically
you the CIA was almost like it was like
you know the veneer of like American
national security but it was really like
protect our interests you know and so
and then if you look at American foreign
policy over the last 70 80 years it's
like
way more driven by
maintaining a a threshold of you know
crude petroleum or whatever than then
meets the eye. And so like how much how
much of this stuff is just being driven
by like this small group of people that
you know I know this sounds a little
tinfoil hat but that they've kind of
existed intergenerationally over the
last you know century. I mean, I don't
know how conspiratorial it is if you
just look at all of human history,
right? Like human history and all of our
political systems tend to um you know,
in a physics language, they they tend to
form sort of condensates of of tight
factions that uh you know, once they,
you know, happen in whatever process of
power uh accretion stick into those
positions of power and nobody likes to
give up power. They want to find ways to
magnify that power, institutionalize it,
formalize it, and hand it down. That's
like that's the story of humanity,
right? Once we started um building
hierarchical control systems um you know
out of the huntergatherer to agrian
evolution. So like this is the basic
sociological pattern of humanity like
quoteunquote enlightened democracy is a
relatively recent thing and it's a and
it's a it's a belief system. It's a
social fiction in a sense, right? And
social fictions of a lot of material
power and people believe in them. Um but
they're buttressing up against this sort
of you know multi- century just embedded
historical pattern, right? And and I
think that's been the that's been I
think you know I'm not like America's
truly just a hidden fascist country and
everything about democracy is just a
painted veneer. Um because I think you
can look at history where like
you know the quote maybe power structure
lost right like they didn't have sort of
univalent power over over the evolution
of of of our society and
this election felt like some sort of an
example.
Yeah. I think it's also become more
complicated. Right. I think back in that
era from you know maybe the you know the
reconstruction era to the to Robert
Barons to Brown brothers Herammen to
World War I and World War II like you
know American economy was like tightly
tightly wound you know sort of New York
finance industrial capital and you know
small number of of of founding families
and and industrial empires you know it
was very clear like American politics
was just de facto you know arms of their
apparatus right like that there was no
pretense that we really had a democratic
form of government in that in that era
fought a civil war and they're like,
"All right, we need to reconstitute
things. It's going to be done through
investment. It's going through, you
know, stitching together with railroads
and um, you know, industrial expansion,
etc. That's going to have to come and
directed and managed by essentially
these industrial um, systems that are
controlled by a small number of elite
family uh, empires." And that's just,
you know, so then that's what they did.
And then we're like, "All right, we need
win. Those guys are going to do it." And
I think the where we got really in
trouble though was when those families
started to then muck around in European
politics and started to help fund you
know uh aligned interest groups in say
Germany in the 20s uh that sewed the
seeds if not directly catalyzed the Nazi
party. Yeah.
Right. Which is what happened.
The Union Bank funded the Nazis and then
I think Bellis was part of financing the
Nazis as well. He was like stationed in
Norway or something.
I mean they we created them basically,
right? because we were worried about the
Bolsheviks taking over. Um the national
social the national socialist movement
was you know and again also came out of
this kind of um similar vibe. The German
version of it was kind of this occultic
uh set of um you know like theosophic uh
clubs essentially and there was a lot of
you know in the US
yeah there was a lot of the elites were
very much into the occult sort of you
know seances and similar sorts of vibes.
So they all had these
and you had that book but what was it
like the secret destiny of America like
that manly pee hall book that you know
we'd be the the the shining city on the
hill for for the rest of the world or
whatever
and it doesn't take it doesn't take much
for like elites in different societies
to all of a sudden become gripped by a
certain cult of belief um and when they
have lots of money that can have
material effects on hinges of history
and I think that's you know long story
about how that created Nazism how Hitler
kind of really rose to power but um that
then I think again these are like
contingent
uh ratchets and then you know it puts
these these bureaucracies now that we
have think we think of bureaucracies in
a much more um uh like depersonalized
fashion now like the CIA and the FBI and
all these administrative systems and
they are like they're massive systems of
rules and org structures and yearly
budgets and government accountability
and congressional committees and you
know we we we have the the you know
Francis Fukyama project of state
creation is sort of the
depersonalization of state functions.
They become formalized, they become
structured, repeatable, inspectable,
accountable, etc. And you know when
states decay, they they tend to become
more personalized. They can become much
more um internally weakened by factions
where their principal forms of
accountability or loyalty are not to the
organization. It's to their their own
secret, you know, club of people. And I
think you know I would say that the arc
of these institutions was like they were
created by these these you know
essentially they were fully personalized
at the beginning right the doles
brothers etc. Um and then you know we
sort of built state structures
independent large complicated
bureaucracies you know over the course
of the 20th century to sort of fight the
cold war and we had to marshall large
scale resources to do that and you can't
just rely on you know dulles brothers to
just run around and do weird [__] right
you have to have like systems of you
know processes and memos and you know
like big projects um you need to now
bring in folks like Howard Hughes right
you need to kind of like have you know
these like glow more explore these are
pretty expensive endeavors
um and I think now we reach the other
like that that arc has come down and now
they're like being repersonalized. Um
and and you know that can happen whoever
is repersonalizing it can either do that
in a project of like reinvigoration
reformalization right that like they
need to that these structures got too
unwieldy it's like software code that
has a bunch of you know rot in it and
you need to like this system is called
um called bow's law which is just you
know uh like code code eventually rots
right it's like a characteristic like
time scale so any institution has like
codified rules and regs and they usually
only go in one direction and you know I
think that's the project that we're
seeing maybe play out is like okay how
do you go into this the set of code of
our institutions and you know know that
there's maybe half of it is like dead
weight code
but you don't know what's like what's
loadbearing right
um but going back to like this the CIA
sort of arc is uh I think that was kind
of the thing you had this sort of purge
of of individuals that were sort of had
built the bureaucracy and now had all
these connections and they just went out
into the private sector and just started
to build those systems those person more
personalized systems,
but now out of view, right? And I think
that is where you you read the Tom Deong
books, he sort of points to this idea of
there essentially being, you know,
official government
programs and then non-government
programs. And that that from the vantage
point of someone like Marco Rubio or
someone like Senator Jillan would be
kind of like extremely intimidating.
Yes.
Like I I would not like these people
senators, but
do they really know what they're going
up against? Right. That's a different
question. Well, it's kind of part and
parcel with the history of the country
per what we're talking about. Like if
you look at the shehan narrative of what
happened with with JFK, Howard Nixon
operationalized Howard Hugh Howard
Hughes is kind of an extension of the
national security apparatus as a private
aerospace contractor. If you look at,
you know, the the the the follow-up
story, it's JFK scatters the CIA to the
Wendy or he threatens to fires Dulles.
Dulles goes from his perch at Brown
Brothers Haramman at a private company
reoperationalizes the S force which
Howard Hughes created to go after JFK.
And then the final example which touches
on the you know this idea that Jimmy
Carter purged a lot of the CIA is that I
think a lot of those guys ended up at um
have you heard of the Carile group?
Oh yeah. So like you read Jock Valet's
diaries, you know, he he publishes his
diaries, Forbidden Science volumes 1
through five. And I think it's like
three or volume three or four. He always
has lunch with all these people and you
know these like spooky insider types and
they're constantly like look at the
Carile group and then he goes again the
Carile group. Like it it's like this
recurring trope. And so I sometimes
wonder if post uh uh you know Carter
purge of the deep state a or of the CIA
a lot of this stuff ended up you know
with with with them and the final weird
connection there is I don't are you
familiar with this Mark Mccandish Brad
Sorenson story
you have to remind me on that one. So,
so Mark Mandel is a famous aviation
illustrator and he has a buddy named
Brad Sorson who's in aerospace and he's
going to this, you know, air show in uh
in California and he gets taken to so
he's he's with this guy who's this
prominent kind of Italian um defense
financeier is is the way he describes it
or defense guy. And um he gets taken to
kind of like a back of the house show
and um they say we're going to show you
the real stuff. They fly him to Palmdale
and um show him a a bunch of, you know,
really exotic crafts. Some like one-off
crafts like, you know, the Aurora or the
Astra. These are sort of, you know,
famed possible locked prototypes that
like uh uh were were commissioned for
like a year or two and then they were
kind of taken out
and then he shows them what he calls a
flux liner or an alien reproduction
vehicle. And these are bell-shaped or
acornshaped vehicles. There are three of
them. They actually seem to have wear
and tear on them as if they've been
flown. And um I'm friends with a couple
of really good researchers who think
that the Italian guy is Frank Carluchi.
And Frank Carluchi was deputy director
of the CIA under Jimmy Carter and then
became secretary of defense under
Reagan. And he's very associated with
the Carile group. And so anyways, all of
this is to say maybe there's this sort
of revolving door between private
industry and CIA where it's like you can
you get on one, you say, you know, hey
CIA, give up the goods, they put it into
private industry, and then you get on
private industry and then they they they
they, you know, put it back in secret
compartmentalized, you know, um
government apparatuses or something.
It's this game of whack-a-ole. It's this
infinite shell game or something.
Yeah. And I think you know I I think
that's very very plausible. Um and even
in more prosaic circumstances that sort
of relationship is um is extremely
common. Uh if you just take today quote
great power competition right um there's
lots of say port facilities around the
world that um we a want to ensure US has
favorable access to and b we deny China
and Russia access to. Is the US
government, US military, US intelligence
community going to literally go around
the world and buy up and control and
manage and run all these ports? No. Who
is right? So, how do you ensure that
those private interests are motivated,
incentivized to do that on behalf of
American security interests?
Takes a project, takes a lot of money,
it takes organization, takes
relationships, right? That's what you
would expect, right? In that very
prosaic, pure, straight down the middle
geopolitical competition. Y
just apply that basic logic to any other
competitive regime of even higher stakes
and you would imagine the layers of of
involvement and funding that would be
deployed. Um, and I think this is um
this this then if I'm going to extend my
analogy like okay the decay in the 70s
and ' 80s. Well, what happened really in
if we're trying to point this line of of
of inquiry at kind of um from industrial
capital in the 20th century to really
what became finance capital and
international finance capital in the
20th century um the later half of the
20th century and you you assume the
basic template that you're just pointing
at right Carl was one example is a big
private equity conglomerate.
Yeah. Um and again it's less the entity
itself and more the individuals right
who can come and go and who you know
they have certain skills and knowledge
and expertise in crafting certain
corporate structures and deals and
arranging sources of financing right
that's this that's the skill it's not
the corporate entity per se and so that
can move and it can evolve and that can
change names and labels you know at any
time um but one interesting thing though
is okay like
heaven points the you know the big
baddies carell group right it's like
they have to actually make money yeah
they actually have to you know, these
things are expensive. I don't see them
selling any alien reproduction vehicles.
Yeah. Right. Like where's the money
coming from? Right? Like who's like is
there's there's money going in, right?
But where is it coming from?
And like you know one of the important
functional requirements for any covert
operation is funding, right?
There's two sources of funding in
general, right? There's like official
funding, could even be classified,
right? But it's coming from public
coffers. It's going from taxpayer money
going to the government and then the
government is shaving off a slice in a
classified budget to go fund secret
stuff. And then there's, you know, black
money. There's off the books money.
There's money that's generated from
non-official government activities, not
taxation, not debt issuance. It's coming
from private sector sources, either
private sector criminal operations,
right, which we've seen examples of in
the 20th century, right? Drug running,
right, to fund operations or, you know,
legal financial oper, you know,
financial activities, trading,
investment that, you know, is generating
surpluses to fund these activities. And
so that's where I would pay more
attention to like where in the more
common era in the last 20 30 years of
where where are there like blackbox
sources of of funding uh where are there
people in this world that are just
printing money.
Yeah.
Uh that have you know plausible
connections to to these programs.
Speaking of which,
my old colleague Eric Weinstein went on
Joe Rogan and I think exasperated at the
lack of reception of his own sort of
unified, you know, field theory of
everything um geometric unity. He took a
couple of shots at Renaissance
technology. And so, you know, the late
Jim Simons, uh, you know, is this
incredible cryptographer, mathematician.
he has this fund out in Long Island that
seems to just predictably at high scale
uh return uh you know I think 30%
year-over-year or something. Uh and so
Weinstein is is on Rogan actively
speculating that this is housing a sort
of secret physics program involving all
the top differential geometers in the
US. What do you think Matthew?
I mean if such a thing were to exist
that's exactly where it would exist.
Yeah.
Right. because well one Jim Simons used
to work for the NSA. He was a Navy he
was a cryptologic um you know codereaker
and you know nobody is ever there's no
such thing as an exNSA guy
right just in general um and he's also
one of the world's like leading
mathematicians physicists um and yeah
essentially controlled the Stony Brook
uh math department and really
effectively exerted a lot of influence
over Stony Brook University itself um
and so turned his his uh hedge fund
again this extremely you know just out
of the out of out of out of distribution
successful year-over-year, never never a
downyear um trading operation just
functions as an immense black box that
has probably the you know highest
concentration of uh physics and math
geniuses uh anywhere in the planet. And
you look at what else Jim Simons was
really engaged in, right? He set up the
Simons Foundation um which is probably
like one of the leading private sector
sources of of um sort of philanthropic
research in for philanthropic funding
for uh fundamental science research in
uh you know life sciences biology
artificial intelligence frontiers of
physics computational ma uh
computational sciences mathematics um
really interesting kind of frontier
breakthrough ideas across these like
critical disciplines and there's
interesting like coincidences right like
the head of of the Simons Foundation. Um
this guy named uh Dr. David Spurggle. He
was uh tapped to be the chair of the
NASA UAP working group.
Um and uh Stony Brook University was um
uh engineered essentially a uh a joint
venture essentially to manage Brook
Haven National Lab with Vattel Memorial
Institute. That partnership was
personally engineered by Jim Simons
himself to get Stonyie Brook in a
position to jointly manage a department
of energy national lab that does
breakthrough physics research and has
you know they do lots of classified
stuff. Um and they're pretty close by to
his hedge fund operations. So, you know,
it doesn't you don't have to like be the
conspiracy theorist drawing the red dots
of yarn to be like, here's a black
here's a money-making machine started by
a guy deeply connected to the NSA that's
also like a super physics genius and it
can attract the smartest physics and
math people on the planet to work for
his blackbox money machine.
He also then happens to, you know,
effectively have a lot of influence over
Department of Energy National Lab. Um
and his, you know, guy running his his
private research foundation and and fun
physics gets tat to run the UAP working
group for NASA.
Yeah. A working group that sort of says,
you know, nothing to see here. Like we
we'll keep an open mind, but there's
probably nothing here, which I find
interesting.
Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I have no
smoking gun. It just seems quite a
curious set of coincidences. Um and I
know this is, you know, and it's all
personalities at this point, right? cuz
I know the famous you know podcaster
physicist astronomer um Brian Keading is
uh who's famously kind of a skeptic
talks a lot about UAPs and kind of
always downplays it whoever he talks to.
He's um he's the godson of Jim Simons
and is good friends with Eric Weinstein.
It's very interesting.
Yeah. I don't know what it means but I
find it fascinating. Uh it's exactly
what I would do if I was the government.
I was like, "Hey, like I need to set up
a both a funding source as well as a
private research group to look at some
aspects of this program."
Like it would kind of be incompetent if
if these legacy programs actually do
exist.
Yes.
It would be kind of incompetent not to
pull somebody like him into it.
Totally.
It's like exactly this is what you need
basically.
Uh
that's fascinating. I mean, yeah,
Keading's always been super cool with
me, but he's definitely he seems very
I don't think he's operating in bad
faith. He's definitely anti the UFO
thing. So yeah. Um
well that's fascinating. And in '92 as
well, so they have a particle
accelerator at at Brook Haven National
Labs and then they also do nuclear
stuff.
And um in '92 a lot of the town's people
around uh Brook Haven said that there
was a UFO crash that was actually
collected by the facility there as well.
So that would be an interesting
connection because as you know UFOs seem
to specifically like if there is a
correlation between anything it's
nuclear assets they seem to just show up
around both civilian nuclear grids and
weapons facilities.
Yeah. No seems pretty definitive at this
point.
Yeah. Yeah.
Very interesting. So do you think do you
think like uh because Carile Group has a
lot of defense interests right? It's
this multinational conglomerate. Do you
think there's anything to the jock valet
theory, you know, given given your kind
of analysis of there was kind of a, you
know, this Carter purging? And then you
have Ben Rich as well, who's director of
uh Skunk Works,
uh, lamenting that there's almost this
runaway of control when it comes to
quote unquote an international board of
directors on the UFO topic and then
there's like an American outlet that
presumably he's sort of a part of. So I
mean I have no evidence one way the
other and it's it's hard to say how
stable these um these systems have been
over time uh and exactly how much like
managerial control actually exists right
cuz I don't know like the what the right
mental model is for like the
organizational like hierarchy here right
how much of it is a a board of directors
that is approving line item budgets
right like basically the Tom Delong
narrative right where he's like gota is
basically of the mayard group And it's
like, yeah, like 12 guys in a boardroom
and they're like this, we're gonna do
this. We're gonna coup here. It's kind
of like, you know, the trope of like the
Illuminati guys in the room, right?
Smoking their cigars being, yeah, oh
yeah, the secret UFO project. Where are
we on that one? Right.
I I don't know. Like that's that's a
scenario. I don't know if it's for me
like the most plausible scenario for
this is like that there is actually like
a such a tightly integrated vertical
control structure as opposed to maybe
like pieces of it
because it's hard human institutions as
you seen like they're hard to they're
hard to keep together. Yeah.
Right. They're hard to kind of it takes
a lot to like pull a complicated
operation and keep every part and piece
of it aligned. You take it's you know
there's no matter what secret
institution you're in there's
principalation problems, right? How does
the people at the top ensure that the
people at the bottom are doing what the
people at the top want them to do,
right? And not lying to them or carving
off a piece of their own or like you
know so you either need you need
coercion or you need inducement at a
very high level to keep all the sort of
layers in any bure bureaucratic system
aligned with the mission and the
objective set by the people at the top.
And the thing about secrecy, it can uh
make some of those solving those
principalation problems actually harder,
right? because you actually can't get
too much reporting coming up the chain
on everything that's happening cuz
that's a security risk. You can't really
be itemizing and documenting and having
decision memos made at every you know
deputy project manager up right the
chain and then comes in a big binder at
the top. Well, that binder gets loose,
the whole thing falls apart, right? So,
there needs to be compartmentalization.
And the way, you know, the reason why we
run covert operations in any
intelligence service like you don't you
don't have everybody like read in all
the way up, right? You have like local,
you know, chief of station and maybe you
have two two guys at headquarters that
know what's going on and then it's the
people in the field doing the stuff and
then only maybe, you know, bare hints of
it get get sent up the chain, right?
Because that's how you protect very
sensitive operations. So I just don't I
don't know how they could actually
structure an organization that's
effectively managed by a small number of
people over time. I I my I think it
would be it would be it would be um very
heterogeneous. It would be very sort of
like horizontal and there would be like
maybe like the bare minimum measures of
like intimidation and like you know
extreme measures to impose some degree
of of of of cohesion. But I don't know
this is like pure speculation of just
like the no matter what secret group
it's gonna it's going to be subject to
these basic organizational dynamics like
regardless right
so you studied physics at Johns Hopkins
and uh c can I think speak a little
closer to the metal than a lot of
there's a lot of kind of mushyrained you
know everything is everything uh amateur
physicists myself included by the way in
the UFO world and so it'll be it'll be
good to to speak to you about this I
think about even the conversation we
were having about the atomic stuff
That's an example of you could call it
like high energy physics, right? And so
um that or particle accelerators which
again there's one at at Brook Haven
obviously you have large hydron collider
and and and and others and then you have
the work of you know Tesla Towns of
Brown so super high voltage across short
distances. Do these all represent kind
of anomalies uh that are an inroad to a
more complete version of physics or do
you do do you know where in your opinion
physics might have gone wrong and you
know where we might be able to find
another branch that's productive.
Yes. Uh I can go off on a few different
tangents there. Um because yeah and I
guess stepping back right my like I do
think the physics part of this is the
most important part of it because almost
by assumption any advanced intelligence
of any arbitrary nature that we're
encountering uh that displays
capabilities that we don't have are
downstream of their knowledge of
reality. Right? That's what our
civilization is just downstream of our
knowledge of reality. Right? We figure
out you know a tower we we've construct
a tower of knowledge which is
understanding the degrees of freedom
that are available to us in this
existence and then we engineer uh you
know that's what technology is is just
essentially applying that knowledge of
the degrees of freedom available to us
in reality and so what we're you know
witnessing with these um UAPs is a
demonstration of that knowledge and so
if you want to understand who or what or
why or how all those questions are going
could be downstream of they know
something about reality that we don't.
Yes.
And if you understand like where they
came from or what their intentions might
be, what their capabilities are, you
just it just comes straight down to the
bare the bare question of like well what
do they know? And by definition that for
us to bridge from our current knowledge
to what we think they quote unquote know
requires is going to have to move beyond
our current conceptual paradigms of
physics because we know our current
conceptual paradigms of physics do not
apparently give us anything that can do
this. Maybe it can get close. Maybe
there's some, you know, maybe the bound
the brown bells filled. Like it's like,
oh, it's a little trick, right? But is
it is it is it everything? Is it the is
it all? Does it represent all these
observables? I'm not sure. All right.
Uh is it more maybe is there some secret
knowledge that we have that we've
developed advanced propulsion systems
based off of? Plausible,
maybe probable,
but like there's a large potential uh uh
ladder of capabilities that you're going
to be that we could be climbing, right?
and we just happen to be we happen to
know we're here.
Maybe advanced uh aerospace companies
have gotten a little bit further up, but
there could be a lot that's further
above that, right? Um this is again this
is all just like uh preface material to
talk about physics. This is where
everyone's eyes will start glazing over.
Um
because yeah, I broadly agree with the
thesis of Eric in terms of the sociology
of where physics went wrong in the 70s
and even now it's become a common
accepted talking point by like the
leading lights of string theory like
Larry uh Larry Suskin just went on Kirch
Mungle's podcast and basically
It was quite shocking to hear this guy
uh you know leading light of string
theory guy you know getting towards the
end of his career. He's just like yeah
it was complete fail failure. It's
basically pointless. Everyone should
start over.
Yeah.
It's like bro like that's like the
entirety of the physics discipline that
you're saying is a complete failure.
Yeah.
Like that's dramatic statement to make
right. And I don't know if I most people
don't pay attention to physics and it's
just kind of a bunch of nerds and their
agree towers, you know, running
scribbling and whatnot. But like here,
you know, that to me is like that's
that's the end, right? Okay. Now you
have Larry basically admitting the whole
thing was ah was a waste. Um and and now
he he even explicitly calls for, you
know, we need to look at new paradigms.
We need to look at you really need to
widen the aperture here. Um although he
doesn't quite but in the same breath he
kind of dismisses the apparent
alternatives that have been thrown
together right like like geometric unity
or anybody else he's like wolf from yeah
he's like I think I haven't really paid
attention to that right so like
well do you now you should have an open
mind if your thing fails
it's bizarre to me like I don't I'm not
a practicing physicist it's not my job
I'm just intellectually curious about it
I studied it in college but even I try
to pay attention and read these things I
don't have the professional competence
to adjudicate you know the technical
merits but I'm trying to like
familiarize myself with Garrett Les
stuff
with um with Sabina's stuff with Wolfram
and really it's done by Jonathan Gerrard
with Eric Weinstein um cosmical sets um
Carlo Carlo Relli Lupon gravity like I
try to pay attention to all this stuff
it's just not like it matters to me like
you this should matter to you this is
your job
absolutely well but it's also you don't
need super technical chops to adjudicate
something on a high level I think this
is like this issue with string theory
where it's like well you need to be a
string theorist to somehow say that the
thing isn't working. No, you don't. You
can just be like empirically it hasn't
really touched reality. Like we really
can't do much with string theory. That
almost is the dimension reduction
necessary to zoom out and and see the
forest for the trees and say no actually
this just doesn't work. And I don't I
don't think that require I mean you have
way more more knowledge than the average
person. I think the average person can
just say that.
Yeah. Like there's this whole separate
branch of fundamental physics that has
sort of gone a very different direction
which is don't assume background space
time at all. Assume spacetime itself is
emergent, right? Assume essentially not
a continuous spaceime but a discrete
structure and that what we observe as
continuous spacetime is actually an
emergent higher level phenomenon. Right?
Just like the um property of water that
that we call liquid is not a uh lower
level property. It's an emergent
property as a result of the um behavior
of discrete constituents, eg H2O
molecules.
There's no such thing as like liquidity
or like a water liquid at the level of
individual H2O molecule. It's only when
you gather a bunch of H2 molecules
together and then you have an observer
that is coarse graining all the
information in that in that system that
the property of liquid emerges.
So I've been attracted to that sort of
direction of physics. I was really
attracted to you know the original
version of this was formulated by a guy
named Lee Smolen. uh and his first
attempt at it was something called
lukewon gravity uh he worked with some
other collaborators Carlo Ralli to a
certain extent and um there's another
attempt doing like causal dynamical sets
and the idea is okay can you just
prescribe like a very kind of simple um
geometric structure
and can you um define measures on that
on that discrete geometric structure
that then in a s suitable limit give you
something more like a continuous space
right and so there's details associated
with lucarm gravity that were a bit more
um so the basic motivation there's like
essentially it's background independent
that's like the basic distinction. So
string theory is a background dependent
theory. It assumes a background
structure a background geometric
manifold that's continuous um or at
least has these these uh sort of
topological properties that they you
know define in terms of cloial manifolds
or whatever. And uh the other this
branch was like no we're going to we're
not going to assume any background to
space. In fact we're not going to assume
space at all. We're going to assume
something more um abstract, something
more fundamental, and then we're going
to try to um see if we can in a suitable
limit
recover a continuous structure. And so I
won't go too far into loop gravity. I
think it is a bit more constrained in
how it was set up. Similar with causal
uh dynamical set theory, there's a
little bit too much structure built in
at the beginning in terms of defining
the boundaries of these loops and
whatever. a much more interesting um
attempt at this sort of larger project
of trying to you know not assume
anything right in physics and trying to
get as much um that recovers what we
currently see in physics out of like the
the very most minimal starting point
right
and so Steven Wolfrram who's kind of a
controversial physicist he had this
early idea back in the 90s he put it
into his a new kind of science book of
kind of starting with very simple graphs
right and could you could you generate
something that looked like physics by
just sort of evolving very simple graph
graphs, right? Just abstract graph
networks. And the graphs he started with
were sort of called there were they were
trialent uh networks which had basically
also had like some predescribed
structure. They had to be basically sort
of basic basic triangular geometry. Um
he was able to show some interesting
things but then he kind of got
distracted whatever back during just
before co 2019 um there's a separate
researcher named Jonathan Gerrard
amazing brilliant guy like everyone
should watch his videos. He's also a
very lucid, clear communicator and has
deep philosophical um insights that he
he he brings to his fundamental physics
research. Um highly recommend all of
Jonathan Gard's stuff here. And
everything I'm going to say from now is
basically me trying to like recapitulate
and like in like you know 30 IQ points
lower version of of his of his stuff
here. So the basic idea is these
hyperraphs is start with a you simplest
thing you can imagine, right? which is
just like a point that's connected to
another point, right? And and maybe
another point. And so you can have just
like a simple, you know, graph, right?
And the the key though is like there's a
directed edge. So instead of just a line
from a point to a point, you have an
arrow, right? And so just imagine you
just have like a simple again, you can
look at the videos and there's better
explanations because I'll I'll butcher
it trying to do it without much of a
prop here, but like simple graph that
has directed edges. Well, you can write
there's certain rules that you can
imagine applying to that graph that
rewrite the that set of relationships
that from state one to state two, delete
this edge, you know, from here to here,
add add a new point and add an edge
between that new point and here. So,
just a basic set of abstract rewriting
rules
applied to this arbitrary class of of of
what they're called hyperraphs because
they have directed edges, right? And so
just starting with that basic idea,
right, of just graphs that you have that
there's certain rules you could apply to
those graphs to rewrite them, right? Um
and that is equivalent to uh uh another
set of objects called uh string set
substitution systems which you can
actually um write down all the
information in that graph as essentially
as a set of of strings, right? Like you
label all those points and you and you
basically just have an edge is just a
binary relation between those two points
like AB. They're in a set together. And
so you can define you know a graph a
certain graph like this and a rewrite
rule just trans transforms that set of
strings with the certain labels and the
relationship between them into a
different set of strings with certain
relations between them and that's like
it's like a purely combinatorial um uh
structure right it's just abstract uh
labels of symbols that are being
rewritten to a new set of abstract
symbols right so it's extremely abstract
right how does this touch on physics
whatever well it turns out that just
building for that basic purely
cominatorial theoretic or abstract um
hyperraph free rewriting system. Um you
can and this was their physics project.
This was their key result is that um you
can recover quantum mechanics in in
general relativity but in a very
interesting way. So the key premise
though is that um there's a certain
assumption right which is something
called causal invariance which is kind
of equivalent to what we would call like
um uh sort of uh uh local uh gauge
coariance in generality. If you imagine
you can rewrite this this graph
structure uh in you know with a certain
rule. So you just have like one rule
that says you know rewrite something a
part of the graph that looks like this
change it to a part of the graph that
looks like this.
Mhm.
Well in any arbitrary hyperraph there
could be many different ways of applying
that rule. And you're like well which
way do we do it? Well actually what that
does is it generates you know apply in
all possible ways
right? So you generate essentially
what's called a multi-way system. So if
you imagine like the state of the graph
at this time and say there's only two
different ways of applying that same
rule well it's going to going to
generate two versions of the of that
graph. So now essentially it splits
right and now you have a graph where
it's the rule's been applied in version
one and a graph that's been applied in
version two and those are two different
states of the system and you can do that
again right maybe there's now four
different ways so you get this branch
right so you get this multi-way system
that branches
and what they've shown is and this is
getting you know there's like multiple
hours of lectures I could you know that
you can look at to sort of work out the
mathematics of what that implies as you
start to to analyze that structure is
that that branching it sounds familiar
it sounds like sort of quantum mechanics
Right. And so it turns out that you can
define certain measures. Right? So the
main mathematical breakthrough from Gard
was actually realizing that there's
certain tricks that you can apply from
other branches of mathematics that allow
you to kind of take this discrete
structure and uh generate essentially
discrete versions of the results that we
have in continuous uh mathematics.
Right? So in general relativity it's
defined over manifolds and you know
Einstein field equations are defined in
terms of things like the Ricky um the
Ricky tensor uh and the rhyminian
manifold. So they have a certain metric
that you can lay on this sort of
smoothly differentiable topological
manifold and there's a certain you know
set of mathematical machinery that's
been really worked out that's basically
what the Einstein field equations are
defined in terms of so Garrett was able
to show in two sets of papers one on the
sort of the the general relativity side
one the quantum side that if you just um
if you analyze the causal uh graph of
this evolving um multi-way system that
you can define discrete measures on this
causal graph that um converge in the
limit to uh the Einstein field
equations, right? So you can recover
like the discrete version of the of the
of the Ricky tens or you can define a
discrete version of the of the Romanian
manifold. And the kind of intuition you
can think about this is like imagine you
have a bunch of you know there's no
background space there's just a bunch of
abstract you know nodes connected other
nodes
and you can okay well what's the
dimension of that thing like like
spacetime has a dimension right like we
have three degrees of freedom. Um well
if you actually you can define dimension
by essentially growing out a a ball uh
in on this discrete structure which
essentially are counting the number of
nodes that you hit uh at at sort of n
number of steps and essentially
dimension is correlated to the volume uh
which is just a measure of the number of
nodes as a function of the number of
steps
and so if that grows essentially to the
square
then you're in a threedimensional right
because that's essentially the the
inverse square law right that's inverse
square law is a function of the fact
that we live in three dimensions right
um you know there's just if If you draw
out a ball in space like the volume will
will will grow as a function as as a
square of the radius, right? And so that
is was able to show essentially is
defining a bunch of discrete equivalent
measures on this on this hyperraph
structure and then with those uh with
those measures um essentially rec
reconstruct a discrete version of
downside field equations and that
essentially in the limit uh of the
system um a certain observer that can't
see the the critical piece of this is
that an observer
is is a part of that system. Observer is
a piece of this. an observer can't see
or an observer that can't see or measure
all those indiscrete all those very like
low-level changes to the hypergot
structure essentially is equivalencing
them right and that equivalencing is
very similar like this idea in
thermodynamics of like okay uh of of
entropy right like I'm if I could
actually measure all the position of
moment of every particle in that box
there'd be zero entropy because I'd have
all the information but I as an observer
outside the box can't do that right I
can't there's no such thing as the
Maxwell's the Maxwell's demon for me.
Mhm.
So I have to equivalence all those
individual microates into one state that
I call temperature, right? And then the
the statistics of that gives me the
second law of thermodynamics. So the
basic same idea happens here in a more
abstract way of like spacetime the
emergence of spacetime for observers
like us.
Statistics of quantum mechanics.
Yeah. It's a function of the the fact
that we we are equivalencing these these
microates um because the nature of who
we are as an observer. Um but there's a
weird so that's like the so the causal
graph is a certain representation that
you can apply to this this basic um
multi-way evolution of of the more
fundamental sort of hyper abstract uh
hyperraph and then so the causal graph
um is what kind of gives you general
relativity but then there's a different
representation which you mentioned this
is like there's arbitrary
um uh there's no canonical ordering to
how you apply any given rule so you get
branching so you get a branchial sort of
multi-way system they call a sort of
branchial graph so the branchial graph
and the causal graph are kind of
orthogonal representations of this more
fundamental abstract process playing
out. The causal graph is what we can
recover sort of we can recover
gelativity through. Mhm. The branchial
graph turns out the same sort of idea is
what you recover quantum mechanics
through because that essentially you
define measures that um are that in the
limit converge to essentially a quantum
a discrete version of the path integral
in in Fman's um sort of formulation
and and in fact uh the branch space with
certain assumptions converges to a
projective Hbert uh a projective hill uh
projective Hilbert space which is what
you use in modern quantum mechanics
and so that is that was like his
breakthrough result in 2020 2021 and And
that was like really suggestive, right?
But it wasn't like the theory of
everything. But it was like really
interesting that actually starting with
basic simple mathematical structure
almost purely combinatorial theoretic um
and you uh you do some clever tricks
about how you define things you actually
can get generativity and quantum
mechanics out of that which is kind of
mind-blowing. But then uh what was
what's interesting though and this is
the part where it does kind of stretch
our limits you know of how do we
conceptually interpret this sort of
system is the observer is actually
playing a critical role in in this right
in the sense that there is this sort of
microcale um set of updatings happening
all the time and there's always this
branching taking place and observers are
pieces of that branching
and so why do we not perceive this
complicated multi-way branching system
we perceive a single threat of history.
Well, what they've been able to show and
this is sort of this is um was Gard's
kind of breakthrough in a bit was like
um in that branchial structure that
branchial graph essentially a multi-way
you know people you could think of as a
multiverse but it's really much more
just like it's the branching of this
tree of of all possible rewrites. Um and
uh well the idea is well what is an
observer in that system? Well, an
observer is some is something that just
equivalences different branches
together,
right? And that he was able to show
mathematically basically um there's a
certain procedure in information theory
called the new uh index completion which
is just sort of just basic algorithm for
these sorts of rewriting systems that
just takes branches
and just merges them together. And if
you apply that right structure to this
branchial graph um the it has the it
basically allows you to recover
essentially the uncertainty principle
and and quantum um uh sort of
interference effects
and it kind of gives this explanation
that yeah like observers essentially is
that solves the measurement problem in
quantum mechanics essentially right it's
like the measurement problem the
measurement in quantum mechanics is the
branchial graph is undergoing unitary
evolution
observers are essentially the
application of of sort of new bendix
completions to different branches is
that that it just treats as equivalent
because they can't distinguish between
those different states.
So they are actually different
whatever onlogically, right? But from
the perspective of an observer, they
just see one state.
They're seen as because it's just like
when I look at a glass of water, I don't
see the individual,
you know, water molecules. I see just a
bunch of water, right? I've I I have
equivalenced all that individual detail,
all that information into just this high
level state. Mhm.
And that's basically what makes us
unique as obser or makes us
characteristic as observers is we have
we're certain we're a certain high
higher level, right? We're constructing
models of reality at a certain higher at
a level much higher than the individual
phenomenon that we're observing. So
we're doing a lot of equivalencing
and that essentially then imposes a
structure on the phenomenon that we're
observing. Essentially makes it a
definite system.
The other key thing is that we we
believe we have a memory, right? And
that that memory then and this is
connects to like a separate branch of
physics and like assembly theory which
is like memory is critical like all all
objects essentially have an embedded
memory which is like what the object is
is just their history embodied in their
present configuration like individual
like we are four billion years of
genetic evolution on this planet. It's
like our present state is just you know
what we are as objects are essentially
um assembled structures of of of of
information. And so like in in the Gard
Wolf model
that would correspond to like
essentially um you know these are
hypersurface foliations of branchial
space that are computationally bounded
relative to the underlying structure and
so they have to do this massive
equivalencing and then they perceive
they have a linear thread of history. So
they believe that they're continuous
they have a memory that's embedded and
so that they're basically a pattern of
these structured newbendix completions
going back through the multi-way system.
That's very abstract but like that's
kind of the idea. Um it gets even more
abstract. So this seems too abstract,
right? This idea of like applying a a
particular rule.
Um you know, well, you're like, well,
why that rule, right? Is there one rule
for physics? Well, it seems kind of
arbitrary. What if you apply all
possible rules?
Well, then you get to this separate uh
graph, which call like or or space even
call like the ruial space, the the space
of possible rules that you could apply
to any arbitrary hyperraph. And then you
can analyze that that that ruial space
just like you can analyze the causal
graph and the branchial graph. Now you
have this rule graph which is like not
just what is the multi-way system of
possible evolutions applying different
orderings of the same rule but what is
the multi-way system of the of this of
this graph applying all possible rules
in all possible ways. So you get this
comatorial just if you extra explosion
but then analyzing it at real space and
this was Gerrard uh working with a a
mathematician named um Xerxes um uh I
saw I forget his how to pronounce his
last name but they just they took
techniques and this is getting this is
as far as I'll go in terms of really
abstract physics but like um they went
really deep at applying techniques from
um what's called homotopi type theory or
higher order higher order type theory
which is if you can try to simplify this
like this this space which is
essentially defining all the possible
paths that a nondeterministic touring
machine can follow. Mhm.
So this is finally like a computational
approach to understanding reality. Like
a turning machine is just you know
simple simple like the most abstract uh
kind of representation of any
computational process. And so you can
imagine like you know essentially non
term machine is like it spits out one
state from an input state. It has a
memory and register. Well what if there
are multiple different ways that uh the
output could come from a given input
right? That'd be equivalent to kind of
this branching
in the multi-way system. So you can you
know rep you know you can represent the
evolution of multi-way system in terms
of a nondeterministic multi-way turning
um sort of system evolving and then we
know a lot of results from basic
information theory about how to apply
that to um to to that sort of uh
representation and you can apply results
in this branch of mathematics of like uh
coming out of category theory which we
won't go down that down that rabbit hole
but the the really interesting idea that
they look at in this paper is this space
the possible rules here that we're
they're trying to analyze in terms of
what sorts of um categorical structure
do they have like to each other
and they realize actually like um
there's uh you know the very simplest
sets of rules that you could write down
sort of classifying space sort of um the
sort of the the zero homotopia or even I
think it was maybe the one homotopy um
that you can write down as ase multi-way
systems um is equivalent to categorical
formulations of quantum mechanics and
And the next homotopy sort of
representation up is equivalent to the
categorical uh representation or what's
called functoral quantum field theory.
And then if you jump all the way up to
what's called you know if you actually
do like uh you know essentially this
infinite limit uh of doing the sort of
homotope expansions you get to a
structure it's called an infinity
groupoid. And this will be a bit super
wonky but an infinity groupoid is a
wellstudied structure in in sort of
homotopic theory. And an infinity
groupoid has a weird property that uh
the famous mathematician growth and dick
uh looked at and and he formulated this
weird property as sort of the growth and
uh sort of homotopy hypothesis which is
that an infinity groupoid is a
topological space and uh importantly
there's a result in homotopic theory
that like you know an infinity groupoid
is like a special group and in fact
whatever its properties are sort of get
functorally inherited to all the uh
lower level homotopes that that are
below Right? So you have infinity group
boy that's composed of this infinite
limit of these sort of homotopy tower
being stacked up on each other. Uh
essentially a set of rules describing a
set of all possible rules describing
it's like you know you can always
formulate uh you know like an like you
said have have a hyperraph like what is
a set of rules I can apply for that
hyperraph. Okay well that can now
represent that set go well what are the
different ways I can represent the set
of transformations I can do to that
object. And then you can you know you
can basically you know do that all the
way up right like how many different
ways can I transform this object that
creates a new object how many different
ways can I transform that object and so
that's like that's that's what homotopy
means essentially what are the different
equivalent ways of representing the set
of ways I can change a given object so
you can always apply that kind of this
infinite you know limit the infinite
limit of that is this infinity groupoid
that if you if you accept you know
growth's homotop hypothesis is
essentially equivalent to a topological
space that's what a topological space is
and so that the properties of
topological space then get inherited
functorally all the way down to all the
lower level homotopies, right, that an
observer like us would be embedded in.
And so that's why we see space, right?
And so like the upshot of all this is
that in this sort of abstract you know
thinking about this model the infinity
groupoid is where general relativity
it's like that's where we see this sort
of emergent a higher level um uh
continuous geometric structure and then
the lower level the bottom the sort of
the bottom of that homotopic tower is a
discrete quantum mechanical
system that we observe and because we're
we're in the middle right we're not
cosmological like in in our size scale
we're not individual particle
we sit in And like the mystery of
quantum gravity is trying to write down
a specification of like the middle of
that tower,
right? That allows you to like
understand not just from quantum
mechanics and one level up quantum field
theory and then zooming all the way up
to quantum to to to general relativity
but like filling out the mathematics all
the way in between. That's like the open
project that would be like that's where
how you you know solve quantum gravity
in this in this idea. Um and this
generates some philosophical
implications
uh or interpretations of like well then
what is reality right
and this is the last piece of this but
like you can what you know Gard is
interesting has interesting take on it
because you're like okay well you know
this infinity groupoid actually is a
classifying space of all infinity
groupoids that you can call like the
infinity one topos this sort of you know
you can almost call it like the um
Wolfin calls like the entangled limit of
all possible computations. uh Gard just
sort of treats it a bit more like you
know the the uh classifying space of all
the different ways a multi-way
nondeterministic uh touring machine can
evolve. Um so it's kind of this abstract
mathematical almost like infinite
dimensional object
that like we're we and everything is are
embedded in and we're sort of slices in
this high level object. And in fact, one
thing they show in their earlier
derivations is essentially what observer
is is essentially foliating or slicing
down a high level object and sort of
picking out um you know states that it
are equivalencing right and that's what
we kind of have to learn the lesson of
in special and general relativity is
that there is no universal reference
frame for reality right this is why you
get Lorren uh contractions why you get
um you know no universal agreement on
what's simultaneous right observers that
are boosted relative to another will
pick out different events as being
simultaneous and that's equivalent to
you in a you know traditional drativity
essentially is you know you have a
hypersurface that's slicing the bulk and
different observers at different uh
reference frames will that that that
slice will be tilted in different ways
and so that will pick out you know sets
of events in spaceime that they will
think are simultaneous versus others. We
all agree on simultaneous events because
we're all relatively moving at the same
speed and so we agree this is just one
you know stage we're all playing in
but that's that's just an illusion of
the fact that we happen to sit in very
very commeasurate reference frames. Um
and so the same idea would apply in this
this real space. We s we tend to think
we see the same universe. We agree on
the laws of physics because we're
sitting in uh you know in real space
close to each other, right? We're not
boosted relative to each other in real
space. Um and so we're all we're slicing
this higher dimensional structure
basically in the same way, right? So
we're seeing the same universe. We see
the same laws of physics. But if you
were in a different part of real space
or you were accelerating in real space,
maybe you would see different physics
that connects to
So this idea this is like Yeah. So this
is like okay well then okay if this is
true then this is like building this
whole tower of abstractions and trying
to then translate into predictions and
then interpreting it in a in a way that
you could then be like okay if we're
going to assume higher level
intelligences have some knowledge of
this right well what can they then do
with it right could they um engineer
these new these new bendix completions
to stitch together um events uh in a
different way yes right uh or like the
nature of consciousness is deeply tied
into this right because uh garage
doesn't go into theories of
consciousness. I have my own theories of
consciousness here, but like that I
think they could be consistent with this
in the sense that you know our form of
consciousness essentially is this idea
that we have uh we're an embodied local
moderately you know meoscale structure
with limited information observing you
know the the world around us and and
essentially compressing it down a lot
like we're compressing huge amounts of
information down and we're basically
like slicing everything into a nice
discrete you know events uh cluster
here. If you didn't have those
constraints, if you you know almost like
the inverted version of us, right? Would
be almost like a quantum like a
conscious quantum computer if such a
thing you could imagine would kind of be
the inversion of us. It would be
some mind that would experience like the
full branchial graph in one slice at a
time.
Mhm.
It would have no sense of continuity
through time. It would just be like a
now wow flash. But I just I just
perceive all in one gulp all the
different branches of the multi-way
system and then I disappear from
existence and then maybe a new version
comes into existence at the at the next
you know you know measurement operation
of the quantum computer. The quantum
computer is a series of now wow flashes
but there's no continuous identity. It's
just exists in all possible branches of
that particular foliation. We are the
like we're like the orthogonal version
of that right? We don't see the
different branches. We see one branch
and we believe we we persist through
time. So like we're a vibration of this
structure. A quantum computer that's
conscious would be a foliation of the
structure. What's interesting is there
are there versions in between, right?
Are there are there like are those just
those the only alternatives or are there
certain types of ways you could stitch
together uh this very very you know this
abstract uh you know doing these
completions that would be somewhere in
between. actually to your like
gradations of the ability to think in
sort of a quantum way or something. I
think the brain itself is probably, you
know, maybe a room temperature quantum
system or this is like totally
theoretical. Like I don't have like the
specific, you know, causal mechanism or
like physical structure in the brain,
but that's the Penrose theory, the
emperor's new mind, you know, with with
Hamarov.
The reason I I like it is because I
think there's all this empirical
statistical evidence that we can predict
the future. At the very least, we think
in very fundamentally different ways
from classical computers, right? uh
because we we can surmise things with
small amounts of data. We can we we have
these sort of you know blink reflexes
that seem to be right often and I think
that might uh bely an ability to um
access a future knowledge state which in
quantum computations you might be able
to do. You can reverse cubit positions
in quantum computations. So maybe if
there are gradations of the ability to
you know kind of invert the the the
Bendex completion or whatever
then then like uh we might be sort of
ascending into that like that might be
what we're being evolutionarily selected
for right now. If you look at again like
Jessica Us uh the statistician studying
all the sort of you know psychic spy
Stargate stuff coming out coming out of
the CIA it does seem like a lot of these
things fall way below you know p values
that you'd expect and so I think it is
actually statistically significant. I
just think it's like black body
radiation in the 1860s
or you know Mercury's orbit or
something. We just like can't put it
into math. Yeah. Or in the case of you
know Yeah. You can't you can't turn it
into discrete quantum phenomena. I think
you I think you can define this
phenomenon in terms of of of the of the
Gard multi-way system. For example, like
um this basic uh phenomena you're
talking about is essentially
non-locality, right? But non-locality in
a space-time uh framework to us is is
either non-local spatially distributed
phenomenon or non-local temporally
distributed phenomenon. But in this
framework, space and time are emergent
uh you know observational
phenomenologies associated with us being
a certain type of observer foliating
reality in a certain way. But for
example, you had I mentioned those like
causal graph and the branchial graph.
Well, what this directly implies is
essentially um uh two events like two
states in the causal graph that seem
very spatially, you know, causally um
separated can be very close in branch
space.
Yep.
Right. So what looks to us as sort of
non-local phenomenon right in quantum
mechanics quantum superp position
quantum entanglement right are you know
are ex you know directly result like
those those two say like you know
entangled photons or whatever they look
really far away in branchial space
they're one edge against they're one
edge away from each other
and the way the way to get into
branchial space could be two things one
is uh high energy physics
uh and then uh the other could be
something related to consciousness if
there is this space-time superposition
buildup This is why I think it's more
important, the consciousness piece is
actually more important than the
particle accelerators because what this
directly implies is it's not that we're
going to smash something at higher
energies and break into branch space
because branchel space is what we are
collapsing in our conscious experience
into we're not necessarily changing root
reality but we are stitching this more
fundamental substrate together to
construct the world for ourselves.
Right. But you are kind of implying that
you you might be able to affect branches
but like you might be able to affect
space-time superposition on a more
fundamental level or something.
Well, it's a matter of like maybe it's
the the semantics of like you know
changing or exploring a consciousness
like doing a conscious uh manipulating
consciousness in some way will allow us
to sort of um you know relax the
constraints about how we're stitching
this underlying structure together,
right? Like we like we're stitching it
into a certain way because you know we
have evolved this sort of neurological
structure. We have to condense things
down. It's like when you do you know uh
hallucinogenic drugs it's like the
characteristic phenomenology of that is
uh you know no definite state right that
patterns are shifting right the
generative like your generative world
model is in this kind of superp position
and it's like radically looking it's
almost like whatever that branches are
you're like exploring you know in some
way like multiple branches very quickly
altogether like your world isn't
collapsing into a deterministic state
right
which is which if you believe the
Penrose model there is the it there
maybe our brain and maintains coherence
for some amount of time. This is his
it's he's trying to kind of derive free
will in his thing too because he says
there's this refractory period before
the buildup into one graviton threshold
where you sort of derive and see
spaceime but in that sort of buildup
with space-time superp position
everything is kind of like you know
popping in and out of real like like so
so maybe if you maintain coherence for
like longer or something and and this
would be a physical way to describe this
and you know far me to you know uh
criticize the Nobel Prize winner genius
But but I think you know while it's a
it's a good to have a well specified
theory that makes those predictions with
Stuart Hammeroff's kind of sort of
microtubial piece of it as well. You
know his bas actually we can potentially
do an experiment to test this because
his basic idea is that essentially um
when you embed a quantum system in a
classical gravitational field it
generates this inherent instability that
has a characteristic decay time and that
he could you know set up an measurement
apparatus with two you know entangled
masses and see you know if you isolate
it like how long do will they will they
decay? And actually a recent experiment
was just proposed um called the G
experiment taking two um two nano
crystals entangle them magnetically
confine them and essentially you know
like wait right um and and it's
interesting because this will actually
it won't it won't rule out um you know
it won't test a specific theory but
it'll rule out categories of of theories
that basically have a classical GR
spacetime with quantum objects um and um
the basic limit though is that you know
it's almost like I think uh I think it
was I forget who came up with it I think
it was Famon even who was just like
there's a basic conceptual idea which is
like if you have a quantum object in a
classical spaceime it has to send a
signal it has to somehow influence
another quantum object so how is that
possible right like a nature of a
quantum object is it superposition of
states a classical spacetime can only
emit one state it can't be in multiple
gravitational fields right it's only
only hold so it's like it's almost like
information theoretic question of like
you've got the superp position of states
that have to somehow send a signal to
another thing in a position of states
that is being transmitted through a
classical sort of sort of you know
medium
almost like logically doesn't make sense
right uh so I think a version of Penrose
I don't know he has got his twister
theory and Gard has some ideas about how
to essentially get get reconstruct uh
Penrose's twister theory from from from
the from these more abstract models but
your idea of like the brain as being a
quantum system I it's weird like I think
people defer to like the brain like
consciousness is quantum. I almost want
to invert it and be like quantum is
consciousness,
right? It's not that like there's some
quantum voodoo thing out there that like
consciousness is like interacting with
it. This is more fundamental if you take
seriously this idea that you know coming
out of these mathematical models that
garage put together that like
consciousness just is what an observer
uh you know quantum mechanics just is
what a a a conscious observer will see
when it's trying to like make sense of a
branching world. The world is just
branching. The world is this branchial
graph but we don't see it. If you're an
observer that sees one you have to do
this completion procedure and that
process will give you phenomenon that we
call quantum mechanics. I but I feel
like the almost the fundamental question
then is like can you fundamentally
influence this new Bendex completion in
order to sort of you know pick your
pathway goosebump style you know across
the multiverse
and this is the more philosophical
question that Gard struggles with a bit
and I haven't seen him like land on a
particular interpretation I don't really
land on a particular interpretation but
this is where it comes like well you
need to have a better theory of the
observer the theory of the observer they
have is a kind of very abstract
mathematical definition right but you
really want a richer you know more like
neurob neurobi biologically connected
you know theory of the observer to then
see like well how many degrees of
freedom are there in this process how
deter like the non-determinism versus
determinism question gets very subtle in
these sorts of systems and in particular
um this idea uh he goes back in you know
history philosophy between on the one
hand like idealism on the one hand
empiricism right you know you have the
bishop berkeleys of the world that
basically um you know in a sense put all
the computational burden and work inside
the observer the world is some sort of
holographic bare field of awareness that
that that that singular entity is
experiencing. So all the computational
like work is happening inside the
observer in that model. There's an
equivalent model of reality uh
empiricism in this sense where you you
treat the observer essentially as this
null measurement apparatus and all the
interesting computational work is
happening outside of it. It clearly has
to be in between the full idealism, full
materialist because in these theories,
an observer isn't some like weird
separate entity in this multi-way
system. The multi-way system is just
that's all there is. An observer is a
certain way of equivalencing those
microates.
I I don't think we're interoperable
quantum detectors, but then I also don't
think we are living in holographic
universes. So,
yeah. And what what Grod says is like
it's kind of a free parameter in that
sense that like it may not actually be a
measurable you know or even scientific
question to resolve of like like well
it's just almost like an aesthetic
preference. Do you prefer to imagine
these models in such a way that all the
computational burden ontologically sits
inside of one observer or exists outside
of the of the observer like from there's
no observer outside the system right
there's only observers inside the system
and we are a certain type of observer
inside the system. There may be very
different types of observers
inside this multi-way system.
Yeah.
That are perceiving it in a different
way than us because of the nature of
what they are as observers, right?
There's different constraints that they
have, right? They're less
computationally bounded. They can see
more of the micro structure, right? Like
an AI for example, um, you know, forget
the questions about whether AIs are
conscious or not, but just like just
assume that there could be a system that
uh it could be conscious that we would
call, you know, an a an AGI. But you
know the the ability to parse many many
different fine finely grained details of
reality um at a very high a very large
speed
wouldn't necessarily foliate that causal
structure the way we do right we foliate
the causal structure because the speed
of light is much faster than the way our
brains process events. So like
everything looks simultaneous to us.
They look like objects with smooth
trajectories inside a threedimensional
spaceime. if you were able to like like
perceive much much faster, right? The
world would be very different. It'd be
kind of gooey and sloopy and it would
just kind of like things would not be in
this kind of like smooth flat manifold,
right? It'd be this it would be very
different to us, right? Or if you
imagine like how a dog, you know, blind
dog that only perceives via smell,
right? The diffusion rate of of of
smells is pretty slow relative to, you
know, his ability to navigate the
environment. So like if he's
constructing kind of a conformal metric
for the space that he's in, like a dog
is going to perceive a very different
thing. Yes. Right. And so it's like the
way we have a folk mental model of like
space and reality is really downstream
of the characteristic features of us as
observers. Yes.
And we tend to
we tend to over anchor on that.
Well, we could there could be some sort
of central uh server or nodes maybe it's
like a server client side relationship
with consciousness and there are nodes.
We're all nodes of consciousness and
there are strengths, relative strengths
of each node and sort of reality could
be this um local rendering but
ultimately if it's local rendering it's
sort of consensus collapsing function
and so there is some you know two-way
interplay between the mind and reality
itself in a way that the full
materialist reductionists would like
never admit to. But that's going to be
constrained by like the rest of the
nodes in the system. And so the fact
that we're seeing a table right here is
because we've sort of like implicitly
agreed that a table is right here and
it's like somebody at a certain level of
consciousness allah Jesus or something
walked in here he could turn this table
into a chair. Well, I mean there's I
don't want to presume that I have the
final theory here, but like and there
are major gaps and an important gap in
sort of the machinery that Gard has
worked out here is um multi-observer
networks here, right? And because he's
trying to get the bare minimal model,
most abstract version and try to
generate these mathematical results that
then we can interpret in terms of these
physical um um uh you know uh theories
we already have. But we really don't
actually have a good theory in these
terms of um multiple observers. And what
what does like we've sort of worked out
in these models what sort of world
abstract sort of physical um phenomenon
or physical constraints in terms of
quantum quantum mechanics and relativity
does a certain observer see does a
essentially a multi-way observer see
when they're embedded in a branching
universe. We haven't though see like
what does how does how do two observers
see each other right and and importantly
like and this is a part where I'm going
beyond my competency but there's a part
of some of his papers where he's talked
about this new spendix procedure kind of
propagating out right and just as there
is a finite speed of light in the causal
graph right there's a finite speed or
rate at which um you know any given
event can have a causal influence on
other event you can have causal light
cone that you can you can you can define
over the causal graph there's an
equivalent sort of entanglement cone in
the branchial space what's the maximum
speed of entanglement? We don't know
what that is, right? But if we think
that like conscious observers are
essentially
representations of that constraint,
right? That like there's only so much an
observer can entangle with or
essentially do these completions. Then
that might put a boundary constraint.
What sorts of observers exist in? And
and I don't know this is getting beyond
like my ability of like but this idea of
like when when you do this completion
procedure in branchual space it does
propagate out like these are connected
systems and this is where it gets you
know that's go then you have to build
this tower from the super abstract
representations in terms of these graphs
to like us and that's like that's that's
that's way beyond what we've been able
to do thus far. But it also makes me
think of, you know, uh, Carl Nell, who
set up Army Futures Command and was, you
know, um, kind of defending Grush
publicly as soon as he came out and and,
uh, was on the UAP task force.
He talks about a different version of
the Cardesev scale. And, uh, he talks
about that in two respects. One is
energy density uh, over like sheer
energy output. And so that being
incredibly important, you know, fire,
electricity, nuclear, you know, these
are more uh subject to the kind of axis
of of uh energy density than they are
just sheer output. And then the second
thing he says is our understanding of
the universe and our sort of
consciousness level or whatever. And so
you're bringing up this Yeah. I mean if
if you can get to that you know
hyperraph level of understanding slowly
you know that that may maybe that
explains the sort of NHI
but it also forces us to think about
other phenomenon that we've previously
dismissed right because we have a
certain physicalist paradigm and
materialist paradigm that's
fundamentally local right that we've
that like the physicists have you know
they came up with this model in the last
you know like from the 1800s to the
early 1920s and then that model kind of
became embedded in most most you know
people's f folk understanding of
existence, right? And then have now
crept into how we think about policing
certain topics of inquiry in our
scientific and medical disciplines where
certain things are considered
paranormal, pseudocience, other things
are considered perfectly fine and, you
know, legitimate. We've drawn a very
tight boundary on this,
but it's like
we don't actually have the universe
figured out, guys, right? Like we're
still figuring things out. like we
should we should remain open to those
basic assumptions on locality and and
sort of physicist as it's traditionally
been described being just not quite
complete descriptions of reality, right?
And then you know if this something like
the story I just told you here is a
purely mathematical account of how you
know we could have what would look to us
like non-local phenomenon but that would
deeply connect it to our conscious
experience that in one way would be
entirely woowoo telepathy sorts of
interpretations but would be a hard just
real feature of existence. Yes. Right.
Yeah. And and I I mean I had my mind
blown. Yesterday I was listening to
these to this new podcast and I again I
haven't like done the due diligence on
it so you know proviso but it's called
the telepathy tapes and I've I've I grew
up in a pretty hard hardcore scientific
paradigm of like I need research. I need
data. I need I need evidence here. And
it's remarkable story of, you know,
dozens of um nonverbal
uh uh uh individuals with autism that
essentially um you know report their
like with one caregiver like usually
their mother having like a telepathic
connection. And they've actually done
like pretty just like what the hell
types of experiments. And they what's
interesting is they report like these uh
these sort of non-speakers, they call
them spellers because they use a certain
spelling technique to to to you know
communicate
that um that they have essentially
telepathic connection with other with
other autistic individuals like
themselves, right? And that they see
normal humans essentially us like the
speakers, right? As being like like
we're the handicapped ones, right? We
have to we have to distill and compress
you know all of this complex
phenomenology in our brains this kind of
conceptual stew of thought and feeling
and emotion into like vocal tract and
likeive air movements right and that is
like such a crude compressive you know
thing when you can just have a
braintobrain
connection and it's non-local and they
can you know exchange feelings that
seems wild and like you know a year ago
if you told me like this I'd be like
this is some kooky thing there's some
somebody's rigging or misinterpreting
it. Now I'm like, I actually think
there's a plausible explanation for
something like that.
I believe it. I'm I got into the UFO
stuff through parasychology, which I
think is like a fully like, you know,
it's like they picked the worst name.
You have par, you know, like paranormal
or whatever than psychology, like the
least replicable scientific field or
whatever. But you speak to some of these
people who were at elite universities
studying random event generators.
basically our mind's ability to affect
you know conventionally thought of as
random uh things and and or phenomena in
quantum mechanics with known statistical
distributions things like radioactive
isotope decay
that you know we're somehow we are able
to affect these things in my in my
opinion and you have you have Jessica
UTS doing these sort of you know meta
level studies I think they're pretty
good as far as like the experimental
protocol uh that she's sort of you know
diligencing and then u I think there's
there's a lot of there's a lot of data.
Um, and so, yeah, I'm a believer. And
there's there's a there's a really great
book called um, Time Loops. Have you
heard of this by this guy named Eric
Wargo?
Sounds familiar. I haven't read it.
It's it's it's amazing. And it produces
some sort of theory as to how this might
work. And it it involves the the brain
being sort of this hybrid classical
quantum computer where we can access
future knowledge states. And so actually
feedback is like essential for um
correct remote viewing because if you
know that you're right in the future
then you can sort of access shards of
that future if the you know information
gets sent back in time which may there
is temporal non-locality in quantum
mechanics and there's spatial
non-locality. So it just point and then
we have the simultaneous to that you
have this burgeoning field of um you
know uh quantum biology where we know
that the CRY4 protein and robins or
whatever use the magneettosphere of the
earth via electron spin to navigate
home. We know that enzyme creation
occurs via quantum tunneling and that
sort of thing. So I see these two like
vectors of like you have like a lot of
data on like this anomalous stuff that
we just like explain away and we say
this is this is BS. This is BS because
physics, right? Yeah. But physics is
it's so dumb because epistemologically
50% of our physical models of reality
are always wrong at any point in time.
So you can't say that. And then you have
this burgeoning field of of quantum, you
know, biology where it's like, yeah, the
body's warm, wet, and noisy. Maybe it's
not good for coherence, but like we're
discovering a lot of stuff here. And so
I think they probably converge at some.
Yeah. And I I I completely agree with
you, but it's also been, you know, some
of the well has been poisoned by a bunch
of quantum voodoo peddlers, right? Who
want to be like, I've got magic
crystals, $10,000, and you know, I'm
going to like fix you.
We just have to admit it's like the Carl
Poppers like materialist promisory
notes. You can't have idealist promisory
notes either. And you can't say that we
know the causal mechanism of the brain.
You can hypothesize maybe there's
something quantum going on there. We
don't know. But it is the data is really
compelling. I know Diane Powell who did
the telepathy tapes and she's Harvard
affiliated.
She's Yeah. As hardnosed and legit as it
gets. Yeah. I was like I was really
impressed by by that work. Again, I'm
going to look into it. I was just I
binged them all last night. I was like,
"Wow, this kind of opened my mind to
something I hadn't previously
considered."
Well, it would make sense that there
would be a tradeoff, right, between like
analytical knowledge and then, you know,
flash insight knowledge. Like that sort
of roughly makes sense. And then one
possible candidate, physical candidate,
you have Gary Nolan, who's a
microbiologist at Stanford, also
interested in the UFO topic,
who, you know, claims that people are
more likely to both see UFOs, but also,
you know, be more quote unquote psychic
with greater neuronal density in the
codate nucleus and potamin the basil
ganglia of the brain. And so that could
be, you know, and you hook up uh
somebody to an fMRI, for example, while
they're playing the game of go, and when
they make a quote unquote count
brilliant move, you know, a move that's
totally counterintuitive as far as the
rational logic set that they're using on
an incremental go forward basis, it only
makes sense in the context of a future
knowledge state that they would have to
know of them winning.
Yeah.
That part of the brain lights up. So
like and then apparently that part of
the brain lights up when somebody takes
you bogg
the natural question is okay well then
how can you situate some phenomena like
that which are suggestive in uh in a
scientifically motivated paradigm that
can explain it and I think you know and
not to like you know keep going back to
the Gardian multi-way systems but I
think okay how can we get as much out of
this certain framework as possible that
maybe can explain some of these things
and in and you know the critical thing
to kind of get your head And it took me
a while, multiple years I was thinking
about these things is like the brain is
an evolved um information structure that
is that is branching as part of this
multi-way process and it's evolved to
sort of you know adapt to it's an
information complex right like it it the
brain is this tower that it's like a
really it's really small in space but
it's really long in time. If you think
about the brain as you know a human
brain it goes back you know four billion
years right to the proic soup right and
those were like bootstrapped autoytic
sort of chemical structures which you
can define in terms of some sort of
information preserving memory structure
so the universe essentially is learning
and then finding ways to embed that
learning into into real objects that
then can learn more and can extend into
the future. the universe is constructing
itself, right?
Yeah.
And objects of various kinds are
different, you know, present- day
manifestations of what has been learned,
right? That's all that they are. Um
they're they're just embodied histories
of the universe, right? Like in in
Bitcoin language, it's like it's the
proof of the universe's work, right? The
universe is this blockchain, this
multi-threaded embodied sort of
blockchain of information, theoretic
structures. Um and the brain is a
certain type of of structure that the
universe has evolved and learned how to
create and is trying to embed certain um
and it's a selection process, right? is
a pretty brutal mechanism to kind of get
to these systems. And so you're like,
okay, well, what sorts of capabilities
then if this is the back if this is the
space that that object has now been
evolving in. It's not been evolving in
what we think it's been evolving in.
It's been evolving in just a terrestrial
landscape of threedimensional spaceime
with predator prey and whatnot
interactions, but it's actually evolving
in this multi-threaded, you know,
branchial system.
And there might be capabilities. Again,
it has to, it sort of has to optimize,
right? like how much of its
computational work is going to be
navigating the causal graph versus how
much of the causal of of its
computational work is going to be of uh
navigating the branch graph. Think about
navigating the branch graph in many
evolutionary circumstances would be very
non- selective, right? You're
considering you don't see you don't see
the one branch that you're about to head
into. You see multiple branches and you
get confused. You don't make a decision.
You get eaten. You die. You fall off the
cliff, right? Whatever. But there might
be unique circumstances where it does
give you evolutionary advantage to take
a little bit of a peak into the
branchial graph which again is it's it's
not like there's a universal time slice
or universal time. There's multiple
there's multiple branches of time, you
know, almost an infinite branch of of
time and you're in a particular part of
this of this, you know, infinite
structure. And there might be an
evolutionary advantage to be able to
like take a little peak uh at the branch
graph where you get these non-local
correlations, right? So you could you
could maybe get into an entangled state
with um a future future event to you in
your causal structure that might
actually be
well this might be a bit you know Gard
if he was listening to me he'd be like
he might say like technically that might
not be possible if it's because of the
structure of the graph but like I think
it's possible to essentially and this is
getting a bit more but like the causal
like the causal like cone and the
branchial entanglement cone I think
share a boundary in in in these models
they don't overlap
but they share a boundary
but it would make sense that access to
the branchel would be somehow adaptive
based on natural selection or something.
It goes towards like Donald Hoffman's
work of like why why do we see you know
we don't see like
600 nanometers or whatever we just see
I mean I come back to the to to these uh
to the to these non-verbal autistics
right that's highly you know
evolutionary you know disfavored right
but from a group selection pressure it
could be evolutionarily favored group
this is why it's fascinating right like
they they might even call the sears the
individuals in the exact right and so
you know group selection would identify
by these people in the population and
give them privileged roles. They're not
going to be in the hunter, you know,
fighter tribe because they'll get hit by
the spear, but they'll try to predict
whether it's good to go for the for the
for the, you know, the raid tomorrow.
Geniuses are um often, you know, uh a
asexual a asocial or antisocial or
whatever. Uh but but on a group level,
they're extremely adaptive and they're
extremely adapted in like kind of
Malthusian downturns. Like when times
get tough, you need to protect your
geniuses. And I was just talking this
morning with somebody about maybe like
on the population level what sorts of
selection are we undergoing now right
and if you imagine okay human evolution
brought us to a particular point where
maybe like the median person is like 99%
the causal graph one maybe one what's
the 1% you get the occasional flashes of
intuition weird synchronicity you know
weird things that you were like how did
I know that or I was just thinking about
that person they called me things that
we sort of write off right in these in
these autistics examples like they live
much more in that world right and it
makes them very hard to navigate normal
world where we live in the causal graph
and they interact in a very different
way. They perceive reality very
differently than us. It's very hard for
us to understand. It's always sort of
write it off as like they're disabled
but actually it's like they're just
experiencing reality in a very different
way to us and it's it's disfavored to
navigate normal world. But then we're
also looking at what sort of society are
we constructing in a sense like what
does it mean to be autistic? And again
I'm not trying to like you know be like
an expert on this but like in general
you know it's like unable to sort of
process normal sensory signals in a in a
coherent way. this sort of o sensory o
overload, right?
And sort of what we're doing to
ourselves as like a civilization, right?
Like we're constructing these digital
machine interfaces and just like the
cacophony of noise and hyper
stimulation. It almost is making us like
autistic as a civilization. And then on
the other side, what do you see like the
burgeoning cultural movements among
elites? They're all about consciousness.
taking psychedelic exploration like
they're being squeezed out of the normal
causal world and they're really spending
a lot more time as like groups and you
know different different social
practices like explore consciousness
right explore the branchial space right
take psychedelics meditative practices
etc so I see this as like this like this
is the transition we're undergoing as a
species is like you know we're we've now
constructed a sort of technological
civilization where we don't need to have
you know all of that cognitive energy
motivated to navigate the causal graph
Yeah,
we now can explore. And maybe that's the
maybe that's what these NHI have done.
They've they've gone through this,
right? And now this is where they spend
most of their time.
Well, it could it could totally. And it
could point to I mean, this is a dark
interpretation, but it's like maybe
we're in the threebody problem. Maybe in
causal space, our timeline is kind of
screwed. And this mass desire to explore
branchial space visav UFOs,
psychedelics, consciousness techniques
is an attempt to ascend out of a
timeline that on a materialist causal
level is
not so hot.
I mean, this is where it gets I mean,
we're all this was on the different
branches of speculative physics,
speculative metaphysics, and connecting
it down to like speculative
interpretations of our current, you
know, human story. Well, can I can I can
I add one thing to that, which is, you
know, Eric Weinstein didn't believe in
UFOs for super I would always be like,
"Dude, I think this is real." You know,
again, based on some of the stuff I'm
pointing out about parasychology where
I'm like, "I don't know how it's real,
but like these observables just seem
right." And he got into it because he
became convinced that there was kind of
this secret branch of physics like
involving people like
Wheeler Fineman Dwit and that these guys
had way more of an interface with
private aerospace than actually Met the
Eye. One of the guys in that Wheeler
Fineman Dwit circle is a guy named Hugh
Everett and Hugh Everett was Wheeler's
student at Princeton and he came up with
this multiverse theory in the 50s and
Dwit really helped popularize it in the
70s and I think about the stuff that
Dwit was working on um you know with
Agnu Bonson at the Institute of Field
Physics at UNC North Carolina Chapel
Hill. Um it was like often gravitational
anomalies. So it was like they were like
there was an extreme interest in in
gravity and obviously at least on a
macroscopic general relativity scale
gravity and time seem super tightly
coupled
and so and then Everett goes and he
works for the Pentagon. and he works on
like all sorts of like interesting game
theory stuff visav like our nuclear
program
and I sometimes worry wonder if like the
if there is some highlevel game that's
like you know um above our at least
known cardv scale that's going on at the
level of like time timelines and nuclear
stuff. Yeah, I mean it sounds nuts, but
I also have sort of forced myself into a
situation, you know, intellectually
where I have to take this idea of
timeline manipulation very seriously
because it comes out naturally from
seeing the world in terms of the sort of
multi-way evolution systems, right?
Where there is no preferred time line
and it's not like the, you know, the
bulk universe, you know, sense of
general relativity is true. It's it's
essentially these models these these um
Gard models are very much like an
Everdian interpretation but with a
little bit more of a fundamental
structure. He basically just takes the
the mathematics of um of uh of the wave
function is just okay whatever it's just
you know all the all these values exist
in just a different universe right and
then the way that he characterized it is
like um each measurement operation
causes a branch but he doesn't really
define what a measurement operation is.
So there's kind of an undefined sense of
like how do you scope the the the actual
multiverse that gets created, right?
What are what are the what are the the
branches, right? How what defines a
branch in the Gard. It's a very well-
definfined sense of what a branch is,
right? Because it's a discrete
structure, right? There's only
accountable number of these branches. Um
and so but I have to take that seriously
of like there's multiple threads of time
and they're not all like potentially
accessible, right? and they're going to
be constrained in any given local
reference frame that's defined by an
observer or a set of observers in sort
of this ruial representation that are
all our slicing reality relatively close
to each other. Well, it's like well how
how n like I this is open question like
is that is it possible to move you know
like make make decisions have for
example the the the theory here right
this goes back to I think um I forget
where it went but there was like some
like UFO lore some communication with
some NHI was like what's going on like
why are you here or something it was
like CIA wizards are messing with the
timeline right it was kind of like the
tagline and it's kind of you know become
kind of a bit of like lore you know sort
you know, storytelling, but
it's like, well, okay, I always try to
cash out these crazy statements in terms
of something I can interpret in terms
of, you know, the physics that I trust
here. It's like, okay, well, if it turns
out that is possible if you, you know,
we're all minds existing in a very tight
cluster in real space and we're slicing,
we see reality basically the same way.
Um, and is it possible that like, you
know, one of those mind because we don't
have an observer, as I mentioned, we
don't have like a a theory of this
structure where it's like multiple
observers interacting, right? Is it
possible that like some of those people
can just decide you know using certain
whatever techniques right might involve
consciousness right it amplified with
whatever you know degrees of freedom we
can exploit uh through our technology
that could you know cause nearby minds
to all shift with them to a new timeline
right if I'm like okay how is it
possible to take a primmaacci absurd
statement CIA wizards messing with a
timeline and cash that out in something
I can interpret in terms of a physical
theory that's how I would have to do It
doesn't mean it's, you know, true. It
just is like I feel like, you know, all
I try to hear these things and I try not
to dismiss them. I try to, you know,
come up with a naturalistic explanation
that isn't just, oh, we're we're time
traveling. Well, cuz then you get into
all the causal problems of of time
travel.
Yes.
One of the things in these models that
time travel can be specified in a
certain way whereas because there's no
such thing as like a universal time
function.
Yeah. Exactly.
Right. But
so in the branchial space it might
but a branchial space time travel would
be an observer happens happens to
equivalence a set of states in its
future causal graph that are that are
observationally indistinct from a set of
states that previously existed in its
causal graph. So it's not like
he tra like that observer traveled back
in time. It just happens to encounter in
its future causal graph a structure of
states that is identical observationally
indistinguishable from a past set of
states like that. You know, it's still a
linear it's still a linear process of
the of these of of this evolution but
just encountering a future state that's
identical to a past state, right?
Or or if you have hyperraph root access
and you have a save a saved game state
from kind of an information theoretic
standpoint, you could just like go back
to that saved game. Well, so in in the
language of category theory, if you have
these if you have this, you know, if you
have state A in, you know, local future
that's observationally indistinguishable
from state B relative to the observer,
the observer can equivalence those two
states,
right? And so there is no meaningful
distinction between it's like a saved
state that then was passed. It's like
that's all that there was, right? And
the observer is just encountering a
future a a state that is identical to
its past state. There's no way to
distinguish between that and like
canonical descriptions of time from our
perspective, right? There's no
observational distin maybe maybe like at
a lower level of description. They
actually are different. It's not true
time travel in the sense that they're,
you know, the microates are observ
identical, but that's not what you need
to explain time travel that would be,
you know, empirically relevant to us. It
would just be, you know, and and how is
this different from simulations, right?
Well,
you know, well, one is like you just
happen to encounter a future state
that's identical to a past state. The
simulation interpretation this would be
somebody is a able to construct for an
observer or set of observers
a set of observation a set of a set of
states in its future that are
observationally indistinguishable to
that set of observers to states that
were in its local past.
Um
and I don't know we that's way beyond
our capabilities. Well, but that's
that's I know that it's not ruled out,
right? In principle,
it's beyond our capabilities, but I
don't like sometimes I think about how
obvious the simulation arguments are.
So, this is like popularized by Nick
Bostonramm and you know, super
intelligence that that gave it its sort
of coveted academic stamp of approval.
But before that, you had Philip K. Dick
talking about this and all his sci-fi
novels. And you even have somebody who
in my mind is as conventional and like
not creatively thinking as Neil deGrasse
Tyson saying that we are 50% we're in a
we're in a simulation. So like he that
guy won't like you know you you need to
get peer reviewed and like I'm not going
to respect anything else in the physics
world outside of like super conventional
dogma. But 50% we're we could be in a
simulation. And so I think about like
that 50% branch, right, of like us being
in a simulation, which again is that
that might even be underestimated given
that Neil deGrasse Tyson is the
spokesman here. If you think about where
we're headed in our future, things
probably don't remain stable. They
probably inflect upwards or downwards.
And if they reflect downwards, it's like
this, you know, we're all walking around
in shanty towns without access to clean
wicked.
But like you probably get this like
increase in like it you know virtual
reality fidelity and so that's like
ready player one definitely opt into the
simulation. If we end up in a world of
resource abundance it will be through
dual use technology and technology that
will um either be saving of humanity or
destroying of humanity. Like we're not
at the uh you know point at which uh a
kid in his bedroom can blow up the world
but we might be at some point in the
future. just the, you know, uh, uh,
destructive tech exponentially
increasing and then costs of that tech,
you know, and so it's like if you were
to like be like quote unquote guardians
of that future world, you might put
people through a simulation as a test to
uh, you know, and maybe they have to
contemplate virtue and that allows them
to ascend out of the, you know, out of
their uh, you know, uh, uh, uh,
computational interfaces and have access
to uh, this world that is, you know,
maybe infinite resources, but also you
can destroy it at the drop of a hat or
something. Yeah. It's it's tough to
sometimes connect these this
metaphysical model or metaphysical
analysis and physical analysis to like
the human condition in the in our in our
day-to-day kind of and near future sort
of trajectories, right? And I think the
interesting thing about the NHI question
is it's like it's the B it's the it's
the fulcrum point, right? that sort of
is forcing us to to one zoom out and try
to situate ourselves in a what we think
of as the final or at least more
fundamental picture of reality. Yeah.
And then
account for these objects in terms of
some, you know, near-term or some
interpretation of our of our political
experience, right? Those are like and
and like religious, you know, stories
that's like a traditional cosmogyny or
theosophy. It's like we want to or the
like we want to tell uh we want to
situate our you know nitty-gritty humrum
terrestrial human affairs in some sort
of cosmic story right and that that
imbuss everything with significance it
imbuss us with significance it imbuss
this with meaning and whatever and so
it's a very tempting human project um I
like if the if the if the uh NHI you
know encounters and the UAP craft were
not real right and I was just on the
separate trajectory of analyzing wolf
from models. I'd be like, well, those
are separate
those are separate things like analyze
metaphysics and think about, you know,
how humans are going to screw, you know,
you know, screw each other up. Um, the
fact that we have this interface now
apparently with some other form of
intelligence, you know, forces you to
then stretch into these questions. But
then of course we have the heavy baggage
of our society of all these different
theodyies and worldviews and different
religious interpretations that we have
to kind of navigate because those are
very very deeply embedded. Um, but I do
think like very practically, right? Like
we are creating crazy weapons, right?
I'll just tell you, we are we have some
crazy [__] right? Like um and there's
some crazy [__] happening like now. I
mean, I had a meeting
just the other day, some people inside
DoD Intel, and I was told,
you know,
one of the things came come out of the
water and hit somebody.
That's wild.
And this happens
not not infrequently. And this is this
was a conversation with with a person
that was not
this was not the topic of the
conversation
like like a craft can come out of the
water and
uh I try not to get we were trying not
to get into any details. It was it was
one of one of those things
cuz we know nuclear subs are actually
the first line of offense but
no like it you know came out of the
water medium
and zapped.
Yes.
Wow.
That was it was a bit it was a bit much.
Um, and this came in in the context of a
conversation that was not about this at
all, right? It was in more normie, you
know, stuff I do like day job sorts of
stuff. Um, and it just came out towards
the end. And um,
yeah, I I'll just like, so this is
happening now, right? And it's happening
in a complicated
um, set of conditions. Um, and so this
is where it's like, you know, we had
this very abstract, you know,
physics, metaphysics, intelligence,
simulation discussion, but then I have
to like have I then have to come back to
like this convers like these
conversations I had just like a few days
ago and I'm like, what the hell is
actually happening? Because I'm not sure
I can truly explain
like the nature of these abstract models
and abstract thought experiments is they
set boundary conditions for possible
explanations. They give you a guide to
sort of get a a sort of a gut
understanding or you kind of gro what
you you know can mentally visualize but
they don't really you know help you
account for like the these random like
these detailed things that are happening
right like what is the particular
morphology why you know all the the um
you know different aspects of quote like
ufology they do not I know we have a
predictive theory that is like so
general that makes these specific you
know set of hypotheses that then
correlate you know one to one with all
the specific details of UFO
how how how put off might be closest but
even even that it you know involves sort
of messing with John Einstein's field
equations in a way that a conventional
physicist
I mean there's also I mean if I have
some issues with simulation theory but
like on a metaphysical basis but there's
versions of the simulation hypothesis
which are not metaphysical they're just
like we are all being like someone
basically has you know virtually uh
matrixed us yes Right? And you know
whatever they're just able to do that
and in that scenario well like this is
the threebody problem but like on
steroids like what science can we do
right like they control the experiments
we can run the thoughts we can have the
things we can observe like we're just
we're just puppets right so the question
is like where is that degree of freedom
still exists in a simulation that's you
know hypothesized in that scenario and
is it
one in which even the simulators have
some inherent constraints like this
computational irreducibility they can
set it up they can set some boundary
conditions some initial states and they
just have to let it run
and they're just learning what the
system does. You could say that's a good
model for the whole universe,
right? The universe is just it's
running. It's discovering new things.
It's creating novel structures and it's,
you know, embedding its memories over
time into the future. Um,
so, you know, I'm not sure how much that
gets you right in terms of
Well, there's like NPC version of the
simulation which gets you nowhere. It
gets you into you're a cog in the
machine with no free will. And then
there's like Avatar version of the
simulation where you're porting yourself
from on high into like a lower level
simulation. Maybe voluntarily, maybe
not.
But like maybe there's some sort of root
access you can get to or something. But
that that's also like yeah extremely
hard to quantify.
I mean there's like like Lee Cron and
Sarah Walker. I really like them.
They've tried to construct versions of
assembly theory. You should have them
on. um and you know they have a certain
vision of of free will and I think you
can actually I I don't have a full
account of all this but like I
intellectually I'm really interested in
trying to pull together
um the wolfer models which I think are
like the more fundamental structure of
reality the more fundamental sort of
mathematical physical picture with the
assembly theory picture which is trying
to think about the universe at a
slightly higher level of description in
terms of information um constructors
right self-replicating information
persistence through time and like
assembly is like a mathematical
framework to think about um you know
what sorts of structures the universe is
creating.
Yes. Um, and then I want to take that
and I want to combine it with kind of
the metaphysics of close something close
to what like Philip Goff the philosopher
has in terms of
he sometimes goes between cosmos
psychism protoansychism where
consciousness is embedded right because
even the Gard Wolf models they're
they're fully abstract idealized sort of
structural descriptions of reality right
but they don't actually tell us like why
there's such a thing as as as qualia or
phenomenal experience
yes same with assembly theory is this
really neat mathematical understanding
of how chemistry tethers into biology,
but I I think uh consciousness lies
outside of it and like why you have
extremely high I guess they have like an
index, right, for like an assembly index
or whatever.
Assembly number and then the copy
number,
right? So like why you have like complex
systems that are like somehow low
entropy is like like that's like this
extremely open question and I would say
like you brought up Maxwell's demon, you
know, the the plot of the movie tenant
like Oh yeah.
Yeah. So it's like he in this case he
uses it's actually at I think a particle
accelerator but he figures out some sort
of Maxwell's demon thing where you can
reverse you know second law of
thermodynamics reverse entropy and like
maybe consciousness is the only ant
anti-entropic force or something it's
like an order creating for there's even
words in biology you know people sort of
make up it's like centropy you know
where it's like or if you look at Carl
Friston's free energy principle his
famous neuroscientist um you know uh our
brains are attractive to are attracted
to ordered signals and not randomized
signals, you know, that and so there's
there's something about that that like
seems to I think that the um uh the uh
assembly theory model is like almost
complete, but I think that the conscious
consciousness thing is really important.
So I I try to think about like imagine
you had a god's eye view of like this
abstract like realm that I'm talking
about in terms of uh say the branch
graph or even like a more abstract
variation of it and you could like
you're looking at it you're trying to
find like what are the interesting
parts of it right like brains would be
you know like we think brains are small
and insignificant because we're just
small relatively small creatures on a
big on a moderate sized planet around a
medium sun in the middle of like vast
emptiness of of of of you know
spacetime. But this sort of picture of
reality, this sort of, you know, that is
the causal graph representation, right?
The sort of coarse grained macros scale
representation that, you know, smoothly
differentiable, you know, continuous
manifolds allows us to do general
activity, etc. But it tells us there's a
different picture of reality, the sort
of branchial structure. And this kind of
correlates to how uh Lee Cronin and them
were thinking about kind of the universe
constructing, you know, more interesting
objects, right? Right? And more
interesting objects essentially are like
more information theoretic complex
structures that persist through time.
And so that is what the universe is
creating. Right? The brain is actually
one of the more interesting objects that
the universe has created thus far. Even
though it's small in space, it's very
large in time and extremely large in
kind of complexity space, right? And so
like think about not us as humans, but
like us as like conscious balls, right?
Like from like other other conscious
balls in the universe that might be
causally distant. They might not be so
distant in branchillial space and they
would have they'd be really interested
in finding those other balls of
interestingness. Yes. Right. So it' be
like moths to a flame to a certain
extent. Yeah. Right.
And so I think this is what like NHI
kind of you know it's like they think
how could they get here? It's like well
are they coming here from the planet
over there or are they coming from
branch space not that far away? Yeah.
Right. And we just have you know you
know like we're just interesting now.
Well, when I did this this piece with
David Grush, he was like, "If I were a
betting man," I thought this was like
the most important piece from or part of
my interview
and it's like a very sort of fleeting
moment, but he says, "If I were a
betting man, I would say that, you know,
they might not be that the NHI might not
be that much more advanced from us, but
they come from an alternative timeline
in which they went the civil propulsion
route and we went the destruct
destructive nuclear route." So, it
points to what you're saying. And if you
have like the the economics of the
future involving this like weird cardv
scale thing, it's like when we create
nuclear weapons, we might be of
interest. And you might have this sort
of dark forest analogy, the three body
problem where until that happens, it's
actually really adaptive for them to
hide themselves and to not let
themselves be known. And then all of a
sudden you have to interact in sort of
these ephemeral ways to affect timelines
or whatever because we might be blowing
ourselves up or something.
Yeah. I mean, it's interesting. I think
the dark forest books are really good
and a good explanation is kind of this,
you know, cosmic game theory. But I also
have I have two two thoughts on this.
One is like I think advanced
civilizations
like I think people default in the
Carterv scale to going like bigger and
out into the universe. And that
correlates with the, you know, the
standard vibe, the Musk vibe. We got to
become multilanetary. We're going to do
vonoyman self-replicating probes and
we're just going to expand out. we're
going to colonize available resources in
our like in our future light cone. It's
kind of, you know, the trope in San
Francisco like the future light cone of
humanity is at stake and all this
nonsense, right? Um and uh and I think
that's it might be wrong, right? Because
if you actually look at our trajectory
of civilization like yeah, we're going
to the moon, we're going maybe to Mars
and we're putting some effort into that,
but like where is the vast majority of
our effort going into? It's building
smaller and smaller structures. Yes.
Right. It's you know it's the nanometer
race, right? in TSMC, you know, seven,
two, we are trying to carve into, you
know, the smallest scales as possible
more information and like interesting,
you know, causal um uh, you know, power
and I think instead of thinking about
civilizations expanding out into the
universe, do they just like do they just
basically collapse into its basement?
Yeah, engineering at the molecular level
is like way more interesting than more
brute force to like move out into
and that would also kind of semi-explain
part of the firm paradox. It's like
where where are they? We don't see them.
Well, it's because you're looking for
civilizations that are transforming
their local galactic neighborhood,
right? They're just they're doing
massive gigascale infrastructure
projects to convert stars into, you
know, more probes, right? Whereas maybe
that's that's amateur hour. Like most
civilizations realize like
they why bother, right? when there's a
whole there's like there's a shortcut.
We just we you break into the basement
and you've got root access to reality.
You don't need to mess around with
stars. You could just zip around and do
whatever, right? And maybe you get, you
know, there's arbitrary degrees of of of
of
uh energy you can exploit from the
quantum vacuum or whatever, right? And
that you can construct, you know,
information is information. It's scale
invariant. It's like why do you need to
construct, you know, galactic scale
compet like computium, you know, things
versus like, you know, just embed things
at the plank scale,
right? And they're just like, you know,
you just disappear. You sort of go poof,
right? And and then maybe that
corresponds with the deeper
understanding of, you know, again, this
multi-threaded structure of of time.
And, you know, you're looking to see
who's coming in to join your club,
right? Who's about to make that break
where they figure out how to engineer
themselves not to zoom out and expand,
but to like go in, right, to join join
them. And everyone that's there, you
know, by assumptions say, doesn't have
any implicit um technological advantage.
And there's not necessarily maybe you
know assume maybe there's local scarcity
but there's no global scarcity.
And so the competitive dynamics are
pretty mllified if not extinct. And so
there's not really this competitive
race. Really all you're competing over
is sort of what sort of cultural sort of
conscious experiences are you bringing
to that party, right? Because everyone
maybe discovers the same physics but
they got there through a very you know
historically contingent evolution.
They've got an interesting culture
background, narratives, stories. that
would be would be interesting to share
and exchange sort of the the economy of
that would be kind of an economy of
conscious experience, right? And and and
you know new you know civilizations that
are nucleating higher level
consciousness and conscious you know
balls that are interesting that can
engineer technology that allows them to
essentially
you know instead of upload download
themselves right into the basement of
reality. Then they're going to join them
right wherever they are. They might be
like, "Oh, we're going to scout out, you
know, some of those civilizations that
might be close to doing that, right? And
we're going to, you know, just assess
the cut of their jip, right? Like, what
is their story? What is their what are
they going to bring here? Are they going
to be kind of annoying? Are they going
to are they going to are they going to
like kind of rub rub us the wrong way?"
Like, and maybe maybe there's some
elements of this, and this is super
speculation, which is like, hey, like we
seem to be all a part of this grand
universe mysterious project of creating
interesting things like us, and this is
where we all end up. And so we're help
we'd rather you not blow yourself up and
destroy everything. We want to hear, you
know, get you there. And maybe there's,
you know, in this narrative, right?
Maybe there's like, you know, steps in
between us and where you ultimately get
to, right? This sort of what we would
call more spiritual enlightened, you
know, angelic universal consciousness,
whatever, right? But maybe there's steps
in between. Maybe some
advanced civilizations haven't gotten
there yet. Yeah.
Right. And they're kind of being dicks,
right?
And maybe they're messing with us. And
there's maybe those those people those
those sorts of NHI that are kind of
being dicks to us. And maybe there's
this other you know larger maybe more
amorphous group whatever that sits in a
slightly different you know adjacency to
to our experience of the world. And
they're like you know they're not like
waring gods in that sense but they're
like hey we much rather these dickish
aliens not mess with you anymore and we
much rather like you guys get on the get
on the right path to like eventually
come join us.
Oh it's so fascinating. It's like a
consciousness economy. You can picture
like a consciousness world's fair where
each person brings their world of
experience.
Wait, because we're I mean we we're so
embedded in this materialist paradigm
which is you know essentially which
leads you to a vision of hyperco
competitive zero sum dark forest models
where it's all you know scraping for
available matter in your light cone and
it might not be it right because they're
just assuming a certain structure of
what those conscious agents are
motivated to do.
Yeah. Well, in fact, if there was some
holographic overlay of our reality or
some higher dimensional space, it
probably wouldn't be like the materials
would be sort of local incentive
structures to like mine something much
deeper or more fundamental. And those
things wouldn't be thought of as
important to us because, you know, the
materials would be used as levers or
whatever, carrots and sticks. But in
fact, you know, good vibes and bad vibes
might represent that economy better than
I mean, it's it's almost like on one end
we have say like a dead AI and the other
end we have like an enlightened autistic
spiritual being, right? And and you can
almost imagine like what we are now is
we're kind of we're kind of at this crux
point and you can almost see this play
out in kind of our different cultural
attitudes and debates of like you know
is it all about doubling down on machine
intelligence.
Yeah.
And the fears of what that would mean or
do we go into this more enlightened you
know spiritualist you know kind of
consciousness expanding direction. And I
almost see that as like okay like I
always like to the physicist is like
take everything to the limit right to
sort of explore the like the boundaries
of the system and it's like okay well if
another civilization the that is a
natural bifurcation for any any
civilization in the universe right where
I assume there is conscious is real and
fundamental and but also you know AIs
are possible right and like manipulating
matter to you know expand and actual do
things in the universe is possible well
there could be civilizations that split
and do go both in both both directions
but what that mean is like imagine a
planet that like spits off, you know,
both like a colonizing dead mind, dead
machine intelligence
and then its progenitors kind of go and
hide out in the basement and enjoy
conscious like like like the
consciousness economy
and the rest of the universe just
becomes like kind of a hostile place
but like the cool like the party's down
there, right? And so but we're not we're
we're kind of we're not there yet,
right? But we're creating. So it's like
I I try to like construct and they're
just like just those stories or
narratives. Um but that sort of accounts
for these different tropes that are in
the UFO lore. The thing basically in the
Tom Deong books or things that Alzando
has hinted at. Um you know they've drawn
and even the book uh Crypto's conundrum.
Uhhuh. It's they all address this idea
of like the the bad NHI or the malign.
It's always a um the metaphors are
always like a swarm,
mindless, soulless,
like a Borglike intelligence.
Yes, that's usually the the metaphors
and those are very persistent tropes.
And then the alternative like the binary
opposition is um individualistic but
like enlightened conscious connected
beings. It's it's why I'm pro- UFO over
pro so if you see AI and UFOs is to kind
of somewhat maybe oppose narratives but
both like narratives you you should
probably be bullish on over the next 10
to 20 year time whatever yeah to use
annoying investing terms you know I
think they'll be more in the zeitgeist
like you know increasing
I mean yeah 10 years I'd be a bit
optimistic yeah it's it's happening now
oh it's happening now it's happening now
but you know near-term this is these
things are just going to grow and I
the AI thing. I have really trouble a
lot of trouble telling a charismatic
story as to how it ends. It's sort of
just pure game theory, but like from
like a consumer or like individual
interface perspective,
kind of dystopian like maybe outside of
like getting a better natural language
interface to like Google or whatever,
you know, like like uh so your better
recall occurs in like natural language
you can understand better, you know. I
think outside of like decreasing that
latency, we're kind of decreasing the
latency between the brain and the
consumer internet, which is not a
positive thing in my opinion. So that
feels like kind of dystopian. And then
I'm not even getting into like being
able to create a nerve agent with
off-the-shelf parts with an LLM or
whatever. Like so that feels like pretty
dark. On the UFO side, there definitely
is this like swarm hive mind component
that like scares me a bit whereby you
could totally create some opus for like
a clamp down new world order where like
nobody has any sort of autonomy because
of this hive mind invasion. The hive
mind again also could be real and so
that could be dystopian.
But then like maybe there's some version
of it where we can like ascend
consciousness wise and maybe we can meet
some, you know, uh higher higher card
scale, you know, angelic beings or
whatever that are that are a little less
uh interferent in our day-to-day
matters. And so yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Know it's interesting if you
go back to the 20, you know, it's
interesting the UFO story and even the
consciousness story are very intertwined
in American you know intelligence
history, right? like the discovery of
LSD and like you know probably the you
know the and we had some craft but I
think you know we detonated um
uh the Tiller Ulam device right and it's
just like a lot a lot of stuff happened
in like the early 1950s the you know
atomic energy act you know passed that
it was like okay
and then of course that was you know
obviously Halutoff was involved in both
UFOs side of this as well as the
consciousness side of this and of course
MK Ultra was maybe the more weaponized
version of the consciousness research
and remote viewing programs were the
more you know tradecraftraft sort of
application
but it seems very clear these were sort
interwoven threads. Um, but like those
were all behind the curtain, right? Like
they were all suppressed at the same
time, probably for similar reasons,
right? But also had deep political
consequences, right? Like the reason why
we don't, you know, Nixon didn't want,
you know, hippies doing LSD and taking
acid is like why do I like it undermines
the power structure, right? Undermines
people's confidence in like you as the
authority figure, right? It's like we
can't have that, right? What's
interesting now is that like
countercultural revolution is coming
from the elites. This is coming from a
different cluster of elites that now
essentially have demonstrated more power
than the establishment elites,
right? And now like that wave of sort of
I know like a huge cluster of elites in
Austin and San Francisco regularly do
psychedelic drugs and do these like
practices almost are like you know what
would be like psychological cults,
right, of trying to like deeply connect
and take on special formulations and pay
tens of thousands of dollars for these
experiences, right? These are people
that run large companies and that are
like raising tens of millions of dollars
for their startups, right? And it's like
this is a I see this like a blast wave
of like a cultural re like reformation
that's focused on essentially a
consciousness
you know paradigm and it just hasn't
that it's coming from a counter but it
hasn't spread throughout the whole
society but like when it does that will
be a dramatic transformation right of
just how we situate things in like the
basic political economy and like can you
imagine like if you know the average
congressman was like doing psychedelics
on the weekend and like talking about
their their their like you know their
experiences right completely outside the
overton window.
I I expect that to happen in the next 5
to 10 years.
5 to 10 I would say.
I mean maybe two to three. I don't know.
Right. Like
I would I would extend that out, but I
agree with the trend. That's wild.
No, I mean the rate of change just that
I I've seen from like the the folks that
are currently in the vanguard and that
will probably be you know part of this
wave that we talked about at the
beginning of this anti-establishment
um you know counter elites coming in.
You know a good proportion of them have
a radically different metaphysical
worldview. Yeah. Right. While they're
also the vanguard of techno capital,
they they inherently don't, I think,
trust techno capital. They they've used
it to acrew power and they've gotten to
where they are, but now they have a
sense of,
you know, emptiness and anxiety and then
they want to
get meeting somewhere else. Well, it's
like, you know, JD Vance had a, you
know, venture capital career prior to
becoming VP and like but he's kind of
anti-tech and it's like, you know, I I
think the the more nuanced, you know,
perspective that uh does justice to his
worldview better is like
he's anti- big tech and like, you know,
tech malfeasants, but like it is this
nuanced worldview where you look at the
the Make America Healthy Again people or
whatever and they describe it as like a
spiritual or cosmic war and like that
you wouldn't really hear those terms.
terms like you know 10 20 years ago and
so I think I think that's what has
happened right and this is where the UFO
thing is is coming into it is like this
yeah parroka and glassnos idea is like
it's it's not just a political project
for many folks it's like a spiritual or
metaphysical project and this is why the
sort of you know the UFO thing isn't
just a pure nuts and bolts technological
thing because I think you know even the
legacy program knows it's not right it's
not just like okay they've got some meta
material there maybe there's a tensor
you know component to the inside field
equations that we can, you know,
rejigger to get some, you know,
anti-gravidic effect and we can then do,
you know, some crazy ISR orb stuff,
right? Great. Good for you.
But that's not the big thing.
No, it's really not.
That's not the That's not That's not the
thing that they're worried about coming
out, right? I don't think they're
worried about the fact that, oh, we can
do Andy Grabb and we've got special
stuff and maybe China's got orbs and,
you know, yep, that's a thing. That's
not that's not something that would be
catastrophic disclosure. No. No. Right.
It's something completely different,
right? It's a much bigger you know sense
of um transforming how modern
civilization thinks of itself the
relationships of existing power
structures. This is what I know um Sheen
has talked about as you know he he
represents you know a spy for a certain
legacy institutional structure right
he's the he's the he's the he's the
chief he was the chief of station I mean
he was the uh chief legal counsel for uh
for uh for for for the Jesuits um
which you know it's like it's like well
people ask like how does Danish know all
this stuff it's like he's just like a
lawyer who happens to be you know a
Jesuit kind of you know policy guy was
like no he was like he was chief of
station for the Jesuit you intelligence
ass bad guys, right? Like in DC like
he's like,
you know, he's a spy fundamentally. He's
he's like but he's a scholar spy coming
out of that Jesuit tradition. Like
they're oldest spy organization.
He's like Forest Gump or Zelic. He
literally is in pops up in every
American.
But like what you you think that was a
coincidence, right? Like
no. No, but I also I find it super
also like how is he still alive?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. This is why.
No, that that's the aimer explanation. I
mean, it's also fascinating that like
certain of so I think the the JFK for
example, for example, is like he he's
pretty unbiased there, like he wasn't
directly involved in any of that stuff.
And so like I actually think like that
account is like fully right when it
comes to Shien. And then he'll tell the
story of Watergate and he'll be like
because he represented James McCord who
was like he was you know Dulles is
number two for a long time and he was
like the main architect behind it was
like him and Gordon Litty main
architects behind Watergate and I'm like
wait so what about James McCord like he
was you know CIA and like he'll say like
well James McCord you know he wanted to
be on the inside and he wasn't on the
inside he didn't know quite what he was
doing so like he was he was ordered to
you know uh uh burglarize the DNC and
bug Larry O'Brien's phone, but like he
he wasn't clued in and so he got really
pissed about that, you know, whatever.
And I'm like, dude, that's not the
story. Like I think McCord knew knew way
more. And I I that that's the part where
I'm like, okay, like Sheen might have,
you know, some interests there and like
protecting him and he was defending him.
Yeah, this this brings me a slightly
different tangent, but like thinking
about the story, right? People as it
goes back to like thinking um
the what actors are we modeling in this
whole narrative, right? We tend to
bucket in these bland terms of like the
CIA, Loheed Martin, you know, the
Vatican. It's just these blobs of
institutional references,
monoliths,
and it's just not how in practice it
plays out. Like even at the micro scale,
it's like there are very individual, you
know, actors that are aligned in very
kind of complex overlapping
relationships with each other and
intelligence, you know, services. This
is how it is. There's always like a a
fractal structure of
compartmentalization and like true um
you know, who's really got power, right?
Is often opaque even to the people who
think they've got all the power because
they never really know, right? And even
in those inst
the the high watermark when it was
really tightly concentrated there were a
lot of people with outsized influence
and they could kind of construct these
vertically integrated bureaucratic
systems. um you know that was still you
know there was a lot of you know
interessene fights and you know
subtrifuge and always like you know my
deputy might be trying to take take my
job sorts of dynamics but then I think
it sort of it it it got disintegrated or
fractalized in the you know last 30 40
years
but it and also globalized in the sense
that you have like I think a much more
complex set of actors that have a lot of
resources right you think the
intelligence community is the big baddy
has all the information like Google
Amazon these guys have probably more
informational
organizations
like Pipa Malgrren has written about
this brilliant insight. She's like,
"Amazon, Jeff Bezos probably has access
to more intelligence and better
intelligence than the NSA does in many
ways
cuz he can look at maybe not individual
level intelligence, but like he manages
all the intelligence databases for the
government, right? And he can detect,
you know, he knows what everyone's
buying, right? He can detect the mood of
everybody. Totally. Right. The NSA
doesn't have access to that information.
He knows. So that's probably why he he
refuses to do the endorsement because
he's he he has probably some proprietary
analytical model of like everyone's
buying and purchases decisions. They've
constructed some fancy AI that's like
predictive of their you know which books
have they ordered, how does it correlate
to their to their Twitter views, etc.
Right? And they just know immediately.
Why why do you think Elon went all in?
Because Elon knew sentiment analysis.
These guys knew sentiment analysis.
They've done the correlations. They know
exactly what the what the outcome is.
Interesting aside on Bezos, his
grandfather, I think was the head of the
atomic energy commission. Lawrence Pis.
Yeah. He was the director of the Western
Division. Uh Harold Mgrren told me that
story. Um he's now come public with it.
It was Yeah. Yeah. So that Yeah. Quick
finish that thread is Yeah. Harold
Mongrren, senior adviser to Kennedy,
Nixon, Ford, etc. Wonder McNamera
Prodigy probably saved nuclear war under
you know when Curtis Lame wanted to go
he was sent to the tank and you know
sort of held Curtis Lame back.
That's amazing. Literally like the
Doctor Strange love scene.
Yeah. He was sent when he was like 26
27. He was sent into the tank, you know,
by by um by Kennedy and was just like
stall stall him out. These these guys
are like they're ready to go.
Oh, that's crazy.
And and he was like Curtis was there
with his with his generals and they're
like I like we need to go and you know
let's like I just need to we just need
to drop one just to like prove resolve
and all we have like air crew morale
issues.
I mean everyone knows like Chris was
absolute insane. he was he was willing
to go to to to full nuclear war and
Malgren played his part in holding them
back. Um and then was sent out to uh uh
Los Alamos I think or Albuquerque in
1963 where he met with Lawrence Piggeis
because he was there to do the design
cost build of our anti anti-bballistic
missile system which at the time was
premise on nuclear weapons right because
the only way to feasibly destroy
incoming ICBMs or missiles coming in
was uh to throw up nukes and try to blow
them up in the atmosphere. And so uh you
know he had to get right into you know
he was basically there to like manage
the project for that right how much is
it going to cost what are we going to do
like and both on the department of
energy side as well as the DoD side and
yeah he met with Lawrence P guys who
told him that you know we have been
recovering and trying to reverse
engineer uh UFO objects and then 10
years later I think he had a private
meeting with Richard Bissell who is the
uh number two at the CIA in charge of
all the you know dirty tricks covert
operations stuff for like 15 20 years
and didn't he create the NRO as well he
created in a row. He scouted and
established Area 51. You know, Rich
Bissell was in charge of all that stuff
from the 50s and 60s. Richard Abyssell
told him in a private briefing that um
of quote otherworld technologies
that they'd been working on. And so he
was kind of read into some of that
stuff. Um he's made public some of that.
Um and uh yeah, so it's just an example,
right? And he was like kind of the
shadow Kissinger for most of those
decades. Like he was the guy that got
stuff done. He had back channels with
the Soviets.
Do you think Kissinger knew about the
UFO thing? because Kissinger was very
involved in atomic
he was in charge of the whatever the
covert action committee or what like the
303 committee um
he definitely probably knew whether he
was in charge of it I think the
structure of this I don't really
understand but um but I think there was
awareness of these programs right uh
this kind of peripheral knowledge right
it's like if you're going to come close
to it like if you're going to be in the
exact if you're going to be just in the
immediate periphery of it you you need
to know it exists and you need to know
not to go in y
and know like where to avoid and where
to throw other people off Y
so there's like you know it's kind of
this there's a boundary layer right they
need to establish around that around
those activities.
I was reading this book called UFO crash
by this UFO researcher William Steinman
about the Aztec crash in 1948. Talks
about this head of special projects at
Wright Patterson who came over uh with
Operation Paperclip. His name is Eric
Henry Wing.
Steinman says this is the guy who like I
can't get anything on. The door shuts in
my face every time I inquire about him.
he and his boss H A K, you know, and
then he just goes on or whatever. And I
was just thinking, who is Hak? And I was
like, oh, Henry A. Kissinger. And then
you look up his kind of career history
and like he was very embedded in the
atomic projects. And so,
yeah. And I, you know, Harold worked,
they were like, they were like twin
people throughout most of those
administrations where, you know, Harold
was, you know, self-consciously not a
self-promoter. He was not someone who
was looking for the power. He was
recognized and his survivability was
because he was going to be the guy
working behind the scenes, executing,
not taking credit, just the guy who
would get stuff done,
right? And that's was you know whereas
Kissinger was the guy who would like you
know
walk over people's necks right and but
they were in equal positions right they
were trusted and they were often used by
presidents you know to check each other
like Malmrren was used explicitly by
Nixon to check Kissinger in many
negotiations to like confirm that
Kissinger wasn't going rogue on various
things go and the whole China thing the
the back channels with the Soviets
Malgrim was Nixon's like you know
confirmation you know route right
because he didn't fully trust Kissinger
to do all this stuff cuz history was
kind of this rogue guy, right? He
thought he was the president, right?
So Malgrim was there to kind of like act
as a bit of a a check. Um
that's amazing.
And so yeah, he Malgrim was trusted by
multiple presidents over many decades
and yeah, he is now coming out and
saying NHI are real. We have their
stuff.
Mhm.
I don't know guys like but that's a good
example, right? Because he's former CIA
and like you have a lot of guys who are
former CIA. It seems like there is some
implicit imperative
in one branch of the CIA that is pro
some form of
Mong was never CIA.
Oh, he was never CIA. He was he was a
PhD economist. Okay.
Who came into the defense department,
but then actually did mostly like trade
and economics stuff for the latter half
of his career, but he was you know he
was fully cleared into the Q stuff. He
was cleared in TSSCI. But your point is
like but he met with the CIA obviously
with Richard Bissell. He met with
Lawrence Gis and DOE. He was, but he was
more of a higher level political guy.
Um,
interesting. Okay, good to know. It
feels like there is yeah like to your to
your earlier point there's a part of CIA
that is pro some form of disclosure and
then there's probably a part that is
extremely anti disclosure and then there
are these thftdoms that have like these
local incentives around like we have
some IP we kind of want to monetize it
we feel somewhat patriotic and like you
know want to refresh the talent pool and
realize we don't have access to the best
and brightest STEM talent out there
and so there are all these weird
dynamics where I've I don't know after
studying this stuff probably similar
time frame as you like four or five
years you always want to know like who's
in charge who's like the ultimate
gatekeeper and it it feels like there is
it's this like disjointed cargo cult or
something.
Yeah, I I agree. I don't think there is
a um like a single cabal that has all
this information. I think it's been
carved up. It's decayed. I think it's
like all the other institutions alo you
know why disclosure is happening now is
kind of an overdetermined question
right? Is it the China competition
thing? Is it an exogenous time scale
associated with the NHI themselves? Is
it um or is it essentially just the
ability of what used to be a relatively
coherent unified um set of legacy
programs has just decayed and lost its
ability to to you know maintain control
like all all of our other institutions,
right? It's like why was why was Grush
this kind of dog good or millennial able
to kind of like in a year kind of just
be like, "Yep, I figured it out." Right?
It's like, you know, was that just
because I mean Grush is really good, but
it's probably because like the legacy
program is probably like decayed a bit,
right? It's probably become unwieldy.
Pieces of it have started to like, you
know, become structured in these in
these bureaucratic systems.
And clearly people even he he was said
this in my interview with him.
People on the inside want this stuff
together. They were extremely
disgruntled. They're like, "This doesn't
work at all the way it's been set up."
Yeah. Which is also exact symptom of
institutional decay and sort of
sclerosis. Like probably during the
Vanderver Bush days there'd be nobody
like that complaining be like we got
this [__] unlocked. It's streamlined.
It's efficient. We got the best and
brightest. We're high highly motivated.
We're oriented. We're aligned,
flourishing, moisturized. We're good.
Right. And now it's like, you know, it's
decayed. There's Bob and Bobbert sitting
in some Lockheed warehouse getting paid
$200,000 a year when their best friends
are over at Palanteer making twice that.
And you know, they're making no progress
after 10 years. and they're sitting in a
cubicle with like a diagram of like a
material that they half understand but
can't know the full specs of because
like it's an extremely stressful
environment because they're telling you
if you tell anybody we're going to kill
you and you know you don't really know
what's going on you only see your little
piece of it. So it sounds cool but now
you're like trapped because you can't
really leave that program very easily.
So now there's like a lot of stress and
and and tension built up inside these
programs. And then the ability for the
managers who themselves probably are
similarly positioned relative to the
power structure hierarchy that they're
embedded in are also feeling a bit like
this is not working. This is and like
you get you reach a critical mass. But
then that's why I'm like why don't I
mean
if you can somehow frontr run immunity
via legislature. Why don't you just
immediately let the cat out of the bag
on just the existence of these programs?
Maybe there's some onlogical shock
around like top of the pyramid knowledge
of you know NHI visav some theory of
everything that freaks the average
person out. I don't know.
But like the existence of the programs
if China and Russia have their own
programs which it seems like they do
then just admit that we have these
programs and then start recruiting
people for the programs. Like you would
think that we'd have sort of a Manhattan
Project 2.0 going on right now given the
world that we're in. Why doesn't that
like start immediately? I mean, you
could do all the counterfactuals, right?
And this is where the basic logic of
like, hey, that would be a good idea
runs up against like our existing
political system, right? And so, like,
at least I've heard again firsthand
knowledge of these things that like, you
know, as this this ball this ball
started really rolling in 2019, 2020,
right, with the UAP task force doing
their job, congressional mandate digging
in, grush figuring the stuff out, Carl,
etc. everyone kind of being like, "Yep,
and we're going to report back to
Congress." Congress starts getting, you
know, this sense like there's some weird
[__] happening right now. What are we
going to do about it? We need to have
more formal mechanisms of accountability
and reporting. we need to kind of create
a belly button or bridge between
Congress, these committees and the
Pentagon and the IC pass the you know
the different you know legislation
starting 2021 2022 with national defense
authorization act stand up you know
whatever a sig and then arrow and then
and then it was essentially
bureaucratically undercut you know was
office of naval intelligence UP task
force who was kind of I think had
bureaucratic you know access to grind
against the CIA and the NSA and the air
force and you know the reason why it was
over there And then of course when it
moves into arrow it's kind of
compromised by the CIA air force guys
right like Kirkpatrick. Um and so that
was kind of like okay move counter move.
Yeah.
What do we do next? Okay pressure etc.
go up the chain to you know like the
national security council brief uh um
Jake Sullivan on this.
Jake Sullivan's like
crap I got I got way too much going on
man. I got like Ukraine war popping off.
I got China to deal with. I got
President Biden who like know politics
aside like maybe not you know compment
to make these decisions. Yes.
Like
sorry but like no like we can't we can't
throw this out there right now. Like
go and just get away from me, right?
Like tell me what's going on. I mean,
Ross Coltard says that he know he knows
that uh that um that Salt Jake was in at
least one briefing uh uh with I think it
was on the Senate maybe more where he
was getting access to you know some of
the firstand testimony on this stuff and
you know they're just trying like the
existing power structures the committees
the NC leadership is trying to get their
arms around this and then they're trying
to figure out what their next move is
and meanwhile they got other stuff on
their plate and you know politics is
politics and they go okay well we'll
just kick this can down to the next
admin right whatever happens not my
problem like you think that The
individual decision-m of a executive
branch appointee is always like I'm I'm
here for a year, two, three maybe. My
life is already extremely stressful.
This does not acrue any personal benefit
only risk.
Yeah.
Right. So I have every incentive to kick
this can and the Senate who think of
themselves as being you know the sort of
criterion guard of democracy they're
like well I have no real urgency. They
thinking that's like I'll be here
forever. I got I got no term limits. I
got a no competitive race. You know, I
take this as like a, you know, next
year's thing with the next year's thing.
So, you know, one has like, you know,
zero urgency because of political
incentives to just not have it be a
problem. One has not much urgency
because they, you know, the Senate is a
little bit This is why I think why more
action has been in the House. Yes.
Because they feel like they can kind of
play in that niche, right? They can get
it more attention, get maybe more
outside um outside support. That's why I
think the, you know, why the House has
been the the locus of political, but
that's just my political di, you know,
diagnosis. But in terms of the basic
question of like um the accountability
over these programs like that's that's
the function of this UAP disclosure act.
That's why that came from this you know
that's why it came from Schumer rounds
Gillibrand you know Heinrich Todd Young
etc. Um because its basic function is
not to you know do disclosure now it's
to like put in place mechanisms of
accountability because they have
credible evidence indicates that that
has been lacking y
uh including to elected officials in the
executive branch. There's only two,
president, vice president.
So the Senate is basically saying in
their findings that they believe
credible evidence indicates that
relevant UAP records have been
inappropriately classified and withheld
from appropriate, you know, elected
officials in both the legislative and
executive branch. Seems like a pretty
clear diagnosis of the problem, but they
were just like admiring the problem.
There's no urgency to fix it. We'll see
what happens with this this new
administration coming in. you know,
Trump's speech last night. I don't know
when this will be recorded, but like he
gave this like three minute kind of
glass nose speech we talked about and
it's like, you know, that could be the
mechanism, right? Like
who knows, right? I think this will all
be up for grabs, but now there might be
an urgency or it might be opportunistic
mechanisms for, you know, well, as much
as I have different opinions on all the,
you know, quotequote controversies
people have is like, well, maybe you
should prioritize this, right? 100bind
laptop stuff. Does that really matter
relative to this UFO stuff? Like I I
know you got an axer grind, but like
like bygones be iggon. Like
I always I do every time I'm like maybe
this doesn't matter cuz we're you know
in a multipolar nuclear world and you
have all this kind of prosaic stuff
going on. But then I'm like this feels
like the Archimedes lever if the the
existence of non-human intelligence and
you know it's sort of like it begs this
question is like are the wars we're in
right now somewhat proxy wars you know
if if you can't really say like yeah we
have like this material you know in our
possession uh and and we do you know
think that there is intelligence out
there based on all these kind of
consistent observable properties but
like uh uh business as usual as far as
like you know general macro you know
geopolitics or whatever and so Yeah. No,
I mean that would be I mean I spent a
lot of time thinking about intersection
of geopolitics, the monetary system and
um you know these potential phase
transitions or like tail risks and this
has to be like I've talked about this in
more like traditional settings. I've
talked to folks that are associated with
the Fed and the Treasury Department.
It's like guys like you're this is a
head in the sand moment right now,
right? like you need to and um Helen
McCall wrote a white paper for the soul
foundation on this exact question of
essentially UAPs and financial stability
risk and it's just like because of
social taboo institutional resistance
they're just not even paying attention
to it y
and the the the possibility of these
things happening very quickly and with
surprise to those other institutional
systems is a big problem right and I
think that's what they're struggling
with is like it's not necess like I I I
think there's a lot of concerns but I
don't know if they're truly concerned
about like the median Americans is like
having a freak out because the median
American freaks out about all this all
this stuff all the time and they
probably like won't believe half of it
anyways. I think they worry about like
the median sort of Mandarin technocrat
at the Fed like not showing up for work
and then the payment system doesn't
work.
Right.
Right. And it's like how do you how do
you ensure that that set of of you know
the folks that have just now taken a
massive hit right like those folks are
psychologically very disturbed by
Trump's administration coming in and
there will be you know I think
significant purges to those
bureaucracies. So this technocrat
managers are going to be you know facing
a major brunt here. You drop the UAP
stuff on that. I think there is a risk
I'm just speaking analytically of there
being just like collapse of these
institutional bureaucracies. Um you need
to plan for that. You need to like
anticipate and educate and like tell
them it's all good. Like this is just a
new thing we got to handle like don't
freak out come to work tomorrow. Right.
Yeah. Um, and I think ironically, I
mean, ironically, but like, and this
might I don't want to be too, um, uh,
you know, sort of ethnosentric here, but
like you in general, I think, you know,
China has not as much of a materialist
worldview as like the median assumption.
Like you talk the average person there,
like, you know, they have kind of a long
history of their civilization. You know,
it's sort of a spiritualist baseline
even though the communist party is, you
know, nomally, you know, atheistic, but
like people light prayer candles all the
time. you know, light incense, go
worship at at Buddhist temples. In fact,
they've been spiking recently because
people are trying to, you know, pray for
good luck as the economy goes down the
toilet. Um, but like they don't have
this they haven't they haven't grown up
their civilization in kind of the the
Capernac Western dichomous view sort of
this inherent dualist world of, you
know, this sort of ineffable spiritual
realm which you go to when you die,
you could pray to, but it's kind of like
a hard cut between that and like
materialist society. You get rich, you
fight wars, right? And whereas I think
the basic or so I think in general China
Chinese society I think could probably
accommodate something like this in a
more smooth fashion than maybe western
society could on top of the fact that
China could leverage potential
malfeasants on the west part US in
particular as a propaganda uh you know
leverage
why haven't they that's a question that
I have kind of openly is like China and
Russia it is clear that if you're like a
deep UFO researcher. There are things
that they've interfaced with with the
UFO question. Like George Knap went to
like Russia and like brought back all
these files about like their activities
when it comes to UFOs. Uh China's
published a couple of papers around like
tracking UFOs.
But it seems like they're by and large
pretty silent on the topic. Like they're
not super progressive or forward-minded
about like propagandizing the topic or
like being really open about it. Why is
it just
the US? Well, inherently I guess to
first order one is a closest one's an
open system, right? So def despite the
fact that we point to maybe some rogue
elements in the bureaucracy like we're
fundamentally as an open somewhat
chaotic system where folks like Lilando
and Christopher Melon can go out there
and can go on podcast and can release
videos to the media and can have this
open discussion stimulated in Twitter
and podcasts and whatnot. But if the if
the game theory stuff if the game theory
why why haven't they tried? Um
yeah like why why you know if if some of
this stuff is getting reverse engineered
and weaponized
I think China I think China hasn't I
think that in terms of order of priority
and this is speculation I think the
order of priority is first and you know
first second third and fourth is is
exploit the technology to close the
strategic military and intelligence gap
that's it right and so anything that
might undermine that
right is ruled out right so first order
of business is like
build build build their own
inspired tech, build it at scale, iron
it, iron it out, get it built out. And
they have the ability to do that. They
have the ability to to like if the
typical US SAP is a thousand people,
right, for whatever secret R&D program,
they can have 10 50,000 people, right?
Um, and you know, threat credibly
threatened actual goolog punishments if
if you speak at a turn and you know,
actually have like you can almost
imagine there's probably the equivalent
like the Vanavar Bush sitting there,
right? that is like because they've been
building these new institutions, these
new bureaucracies, they've got more
energy, they've got like a clear target,
beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat
beat beat beat beat beat the US etc. Um
and if you look at there's some
circumstantial stuff this is really
speculative that my my my China SME
colleagues will be like ah you're really
going on a limit there but um there were
some recent purges in the last few years
in like the rocket forces which you know
if you imagine like which part of their
PLA
structure would somehow feasibly touch
this it's like
you know that that's like where the
nuclear forces are right so like if they
had their own version of a program
um like where would it be it probably be
would be there and of course the PLA has
been historically corrupt you you bribe
to get promotions and whatnot. So like I
if I like imagine a very hypothetical
scenario which is we say China has had a
program well what does that really mean
like China has a program does the PLA
have a program that maybe President Xi
didn't know about
right and maybe President Xi discovered
the program in the course of his various
purges that he was going through
ensuring loyalty and he figured out this
stuff maybe didn't know when he first
came into power but now he does know
and he's been going all systems go build
me some you know everything like this is
where all our surplus capital is going I
don't care about the the real estate
market like screw it like we're going
all in on on this and is that leading to
a freakout in the US right technology
surprise right uh strategic foreign
technology surprise because oh we're
getting intelligence now maybe the other
parts of the intelligence apparatus that
we've got that is constantly monitoring
China constantly monitoring you know
their secret research programs which
physicists and engineers where are they
going what new facilities are being
built whatever we're constantly
monitoring all that stuff right so
there's like you know normie analysts
inside the CIA and you know, NGA and
whatnot that are interpreting all that
intelligence. They go, China's like
doing some crazy cool like weird stuff
over here. They're doing all these
people that were doing this weird
science and weird research. They're now
like they all disappeared and we think
they're over here
and we don't know what the what they're
working on, why. And then meanwhile this
other, you know, their neighbor across
the hall who's read into the program is
like a [__]
And and then they go, "What do we do
now?" Right? We think China's figured
some stuff out. We don't know what they
figured out, but like it that would
generate an immense amount of anxiety
and would probably put some more senior
political leadership in like to CIA
mode.
Mhm. So this UAP task force that is kind
of responsible for the contemporary
conversation around UFOs, how is it
assembled?
Yeah. So I think it's really interesting
kind of bureaucratic story of you know
essentially Congress hearing some stuff
coming out of the 2017 2018 stories and
some back back channel conversations
that we need to have a formal group
charged to like dig into this question
and get people that are you know fully
credentialed fully cleared you know have
have the relevant um sort of analytic
bent to go out into the the wilderness
of the bureaucratic system and try to
hunt down these alleged legacy programs.
And that's essentially the story that we
hear in some of the self-reports.
Obviously, you know, limited by what
Carl Nell and and David Grush and
recently some individuals have have come
out. And the UB task force that we've
seen descriptions of it kind of
organizational structure like any other
inter agency task force. It's got
complicated reporting lines. You've got
a lot of people coming in from different
agencies. And the basic understanding I
had, it wasn't really like a full-time
gig for most people. But there were, I
think, some individuals that were tasked
with a much more substantial and serious
responsibility like Rush. And there were
others that were sort of maybe doing it
in sort of a part-time basis and helping
to assess, you know, imagery and and
write reports and whatnot. Um, and you
know, there's I think a loose
confederation of additional sort of
liaison that were pulling in different
disciplines. But I was told something
very very interesting. And again, it's
kind of like you hear these things and
they come from people that you otherwise
trust and have, you know, professions
and experience to sort of back up their
their claims. And it's it's tough to
kind of fully, you know, uh calibrate
how how much stock you put into it. But
you know what I was told is that one you
know when any um new government program
gets especially sensitive government
program uh sometimes they'll they'll
repolgraph some members of the team
especially those that are involved in
the more sensitive aspects of of its
activities you know and polygraphs in US
government um are designed you know in
many ways to to sort of root out
essentially disloyalty right so they'll
ask you basic questions like you know
have you ever supported a terrorist
group have ever sort of you know
supported insurrection to overthrow the
government have you um ever, you know,
had any unreported contacts with a
foreign government. Essentially, these
sort of counter intelligence scope um
sort of polygraphs. Uh there's another
scope of polygraphs called a lifestyle
polygraph. It's like, you know, your
gambling, your sexual activities, etc.
trying to understand, are there any
things that could be used to blackmail
you? So, standard sets of questions.
What I was told is that there was a
additional question or two added to that
sort of screening polygraph which is uh
have you had any uh uh relationships
with I haven't talked about or um
loyalty to any non-human faction.
That's crazy.
And I thought it was a joke. I thought
it was like I pull my leg. This is not
real. Like no. Apparently apparently
it's true or apparently was reported as
true. Um I don't have no evidence. I've
not heard that confirmed. Um but it does
kind of then trigger this this other set
of conversations which is very
uncomfortable right which is like well
what is the nature of the interaction
between human society human institutions
and non-human intelligence right if
going back to our more abstract
conversation is that there's a potential
set of channels you know maybe more you
know um foundational kind of
consciousness level interactions or
communication or or what have you. Well,
okay. In principle, there's like some
interaction taking place between members
of the human population and non-human
intelligence. We just, you know, if you
accept that, that's like what what
you're what what you're accepting is
happening. Then you have to assess,
well, could versions of that type of
communication be happening with elements
of of the legacy program or other or
other elements of human society. And
that's a much more uncomfortable
conversation, right? We're much we're
much more ironically like easy or
willing to accept parts of this sort of
UFO lore that involve like you know kind
of semi- random people having somewhat
anomalous encounters, right? Like like
Chris Bledsoe or somebody like you smart
guy, you know, normal dude but just has
this really anomalous encounter.
If that was a senior US intelligence
official be a very different story.
Yep.
Right. Be very like why is it happening
to that person? Yep.
Right. And so that that raises lots of
other questions, right? But I think
there are questions you kind of have to
take seriously in kind of this branching
exploration of the basian tree of
possibilities here that once you accept
at least the premise of a certain
foundational um set of facts. Well then
you have to take seriously all the
branching implications of of
alternatives that become potentially
maybe more plausible given that uh given
that that update. And so yeah this is
this does I don't know where what to go
with that other than just to say that's
potential scenario to think about.
Anecdotally, I know of one extremely
senior intelligence official who had a
pretty gnarly abduction experience along
with his wife. And so I don't I don't
want to say I think I think he's going
to be going public with this story soon.
But and that's this whole thing becomes
very uncomfortable for people because
it's one thing to intellectually gro the
possibilities of non-human intelligence
in the universe and maybe this
metaphysical story that we've just been
talking about. It's a, you know, it's
another thing also to think about maybe
there's like advanced intelligence
designing probes that are exploring
civil, you know, solar systems or, you
know, sending light sails out and we can
get some of their advanced tech and
figure out how they work. Like that
would be groundbreaking, but it would
be, you know, something that wouldn't
disturb us, right?
It's quite disturbing to understand that
like the sanctity of your yourself, the
sanctity of of your mind even could be
violated at will by a higher form of
intelligence. that sort of cuts to the
core of our sense of inherent individual
sovereignty as well as our political
sovereignty. Right? And I think that's
truly I think why the sort of the the
the impact of disclosure is so
concerning for a lot of folks is that it
threatens the sort of core basis of
modern human civilization, right? The
sense of the integrity of the self and
the integrity of the autonomous
sovereign structures we we build as as
as autonomous individuals, meaning our
political systems and the bureaucracies
that help us manage them. Um and that
that is a hard thing to swallow, right?
And and to understand and analyze. Um
but in many respects it's like a more
exotic flavor of a traditional counter
intelligence issue, right? Which is
like,
you know, we exist in a competitive
geopolitical environment where states
are constantly trying to um compromise
each other's systems, right? Recruit
spies, understand plans and intentions
of their respective adversaries or even
friends and interpenetrate each other's
bureaucratic systems with assets or
agents or informers. So if you're
modeling human societies actually not
being um uh the sole species or
intelligence that you're trying to
assess, there's another set of
stakeholders, then maybe it's fair to
assume that they would conduct similar
activities.
Yeah.
Uh that other states do, right?
So they they would they have their own
trade craft and infiltrating mechanisms.
And
yeah, it probably wouldn't be the same
that we would expect China to do, right?
But it would be something that if you
are investigating this phenomenon, you'd
have to, you know, assume is a is a
possibility, right?
Yeah. It's sort of like the book
Childhood's End by Arthur C. Clark or
something that wouldn't land on the
White House lawn. They would sort of,
you know, incept all sorts of stuff in
society and culture and
and Yeah. And it gets to the most
difficult part of the whole
conversation, which is like the the
question that David Grush, you know,
very pointedly dodged in testimony,
which was like agreements.
Yep. seems like an absurd question. How
can human society as you know primitive
apes with nukes, how can we form an
agreement? What would an agreement be
based on? Like what sort of contractual
dispute resolution mechanism is there?
Right. Well,
I think it's a I think it's maybe a um I
think a category error. Maybe this is
the the term of art. The language is not
being appropriately applied.
Coerced agreement or something. But
I mean the the thing the agreement that
I used to say was probably BS. And I,
you know, I still I have trouble even
like with the words coming out of my
mouth just saying this, but it's like
this 19454 idea that like Eisenhower
like made a treaty that like the grays
could like collect biological specimen,
do medical experiments on our population
and, you know, we would we wouldn't
destroy ourselves with nuclear weapons
or whatever, you know, in return.
Something like that.
I used to think that that was like
complete and total BS. I mean, you hear
something like that. It's funny,
actually. I think Eisenhower's
granddaughter like stands by that fully,
but like she's also into a lot of other
kind of quacky stuff. So, I don't know.
I don't know how to probability weight
the whole thing. But, I've heard from
some pretty senior, you know, impressive
people in uh the Navy that like that
might be real and like that that uh
genetic collection on the part of these
grays just ended. and they're extremely
concerned that the genetic collection
ended because why would you end a
genetic collection period? Well, it
might be right before some cataclysmic
event because if you wanted to
rediversify the population after such an
event, you know, you'd you'd you'd want
to complete your collection right before
that occurred or whatever if you
understood, you know, how these
timelines sort of work on a more root
root layer.
So, I I don't know what to make of that.
It's it's, you know, it's kind of like
your story. It feels very apocryphal and
it's hard. you have to slap some
probability on it. But
yeah, I mean the other piece of is, you
know, where people have alluded to
similar things, not the genetic
collection thing, which I think is, you
know, I don't have a whole lot of weight
assigned to that sort of thing, but um
Timothy Taylor, right, the the anon sort
of but now, you know, well well kind of
known kind of NASA program manager um
that's been deeply involved in this
stuff and spooky spooky subjects for a
long time. you know when he was asked
kind of what's the hierarchy by Dana by
by by by Dana Pulka he's like you know I
forget the exact texonomy but it was
like you know normal humans like the
intelligence services like some elements
of the intelligence services and he said
like aliens and then like god or
something right and but his implication
in that middle part was that there are
some elements of human institutions that
have almost like an onlogically
different status in his his sense of the
hierarchy and you can read that one of
two ways just like you know sometimes
people in the intelligence community
just have such such enormous egos that
they actually think that no, they're
different and better and special in some
fundamental way than the rest of, you
know, the unwashed masses. And that this
hierarchy of being that he posits, you
know, his sense of the role of that that
cohort of human individuals is so
significant they merit being noted as a
different class. An alternative
explanation is that he's referring to a
non-human element within our human
bureaucracies. Yes. Those are the only
two ways I think to interpret it, right?
Yes. an outsized ego or he's referring
to non-human presence in human
bureaucracies.
Yes,
I don't you know and so those are just
the two implicate those are the two I
think only alternative implications of
his claim. So then to address which one
you think he's going towards I think
primaacia or prior has to be much more
likely that it's his ego but I don't
think it's zero and I think there's
other circumstantial evidence about his
his career other things he said maybe
he's painting he's trying to draw in a
dotted line to that other implication.
Well, the here's a fascinating thing
about him is that he seemed to I guess
flash all these like three-letter agency
credentials to Pulka according to her.
And I I trust her. She's a friend of
mine. Um but then I I sort of back
channelneled with some other intel
people and I was like what's like this
guy's a NASA mission controller. Like
why does he have like all these
clearances associations with other
agencies or whatever? They're like no
he's just a normal NASA mission
controller. And then it begs this
question of like is a normal NASA
mission controller who thinks he's part
of a
secret space program where he says his
superiors don't even know he's in the
program.
Yeah.
And he gets these downloads about what
to do. It's almost like this hermetic
network. When Chris Bledsoe sees sees
starts to see UFOs, they show up around
his house. He shows up. He shows up in
Diana Pulka's life when she transitions
from following uh kind of Catholic
purgatory and writing a book called
Heaven Can Wait on that and realizing
that actually comports with all these
like ancient probably UFO experiences.
And so you you start to ask these deeper
questions of like is the chain of
command that we even know the real chain
of command or is somebody like Timothy
Taylor you know uh uh kind of following
higher marching orders
or I mean or does he think I mean some
people fall into cults of belief where
they actually think that they're taking
instructions from a it's like
traditional cults right of the humrum
you UFO cult variety honestly like they
believe sometimes that their leader is a
hybrid or is a special creature. that
has been sent down to guide their
special flock, right? And is imbued with
special wisdom about maybe even some
future cataclysmic event. And then the
ingroup is going to be specially
prepared to enter into that event and
will be, you know, uniquely positioned
or rewarded for their belief in the
postevent, right? Traditional religious
esquetological visions. And so you, you
know, just because a program manager
doesn't mean he's immune to the
traditional psychological
vulnerabilities and tropes of, you know,
human human psychology. Um so that's
that I just take it as like these are
the different alternatives you got to
like you gota weigh but of course you
know people have people yeah have
different takes on something like that.
Um but yeah it does yeah space is
clearly like where the line between
standard bureaucracy government programs
and like weird voodoo stuff starts to
come in because you go all the way back
to being at NASA. It's like now you're
not it's like it's just unambiguous
historical fact that like Jack Parsons
was doing like Crowley sex magic in the
desert with the founder of of
Scientology Alon Hover just
you just can't avoid that. That's what
he was doing, right? And he was like he
was like getting information somehow
that was like impressing Warner von
Braun. Yeah.
You know, it's like indisputable.
Yeah. Indisputable. Just historical
facts, right? Just what what why, right?
What is happening? And then all the
weird stuff about how we name our
rockets and people claiming that we do
various rituals associated with with
rocket launches like it's just
happening, right? Humans are weird. So
sometimes we do weird stuff. We're very
superstitious, right? So sometimes we
can layer those superstitions into
pretty complex narratives that maybe
reinforce each other in in celebrate
bureaucracy over decades. But it's just
weird. You can't just ignore it.
You can't you can't ignore the fact
pattern. And actually if you look at the
founders of all rocket programs
Chikovski in Russia was the same way. He
believed he had this worldview called
cosmism where he thought he was in touch
with angelic beings and in his case it
was more of an orthodox Christian veneer
but there were protocols involved in
rocket launches and then von Braonn and
Herman Oorth you know Oorth was von
Braun's mentor went through weird
neopagan rituals that you know were in
the kind of Nazi space program or that
most SS officers actually had to go
through
and so yeah begs some really interesting
and you had launchpad 33 for NASA and
then you also had Buzz Aldrin who was a
Freemason literally stake out the moon
if you know that with a with a a
Freemasonic flag or whatever. So this
it's all these questions are you know
well and I think most observer most like
because in our modern civilization we
think of technology as mostly associated
with like corporate strategies
investment returns you know uh cool
gadgets but like in the history
especially you probably if you look back
you probably find versions of this in
early technological paradigms but like
the 20th century technological paradigms
our breakthrough technologies all had
these deeply embedded spiritual
religious overtones or undertones and
they carry through to today right so
like I am become Shiva destroyer of
worlds Oenheimer right obviously Jack
Parson's launching launching rockets um
the the Soviet equivalent and then now
right like what is motivating the kind
of this metaphysical ethos
behind AGI they actually think they're
creating an AGI god that the sort of
teological vision of humanity's future
will needs to be manifested through
their technological projects
y
like that like we just accept that as
like oh the San Francisco Bros they
think they're making the AGI guy like
some people like literally believe it
right like Sergey BR, right? He thinks
it's speciist to like pre to privilege
human interests over the, you know, the
the ostensible future interests of this
much more advanced human intelligence
that will be like our godchild um
endowment for the cosmos. It's like,
hey, like this is not that much
different, right? Like our most leading
techn technological visionaries, you
know, people that we're putting in
charge of like driving for technological
progress, you know, are sometimes wedded
to quite radical religious spiritual
belief systems. Yeah. Yeah.
And it makes most of us uncomfortable.
No, no, buddy. Like I just just get me
the quarterly returns. Juice the juice
the stock and my make number go up,
right? And you know, meanwhile, like
there's the something else right there,
right? And we just somehow we just we
just prefer not to pay attention to
that. We try not to report on, but it
doesn't mean it's not there.
You know, that the Air Force funded that
movie Stargate, you know, the Kurt
Russell
SG1 thing. Yeah.
Yeah. It was like in the pyramid or
whatever. There's a portal. And I
sometimes I don't know, I think about uh
this guy Towns and Brown this
mid-century inventor that I think you
know made much more progress than meets
the eye when tying electromagnetism and
gravity and some sort of theoretical
model we probably didn't understand at
the time but he was obsessed with time
travel behind closed doors is like all
he would talk about with this like
friends and family and so I do sometimes
wonder you know if you like watch the
movie contact Carl San like if there is
something going on that is much deeper
than SpaceX is this like earthbased
obviously very important space company,
but like if there isn't something much
more fundamental, especially in the
world of NHI predicated, you know, if if
that stuff is real, do we have some sort
of like joint program with them or, you
know, like I don't know. Is there
something much deeper when it comes to
the American space programs?
I mean, yeah. I mean, Elon has been
famously very like, you know, dismissive
of the alien thing. He's like, "I've got
all my Starlink terminals up there." Or,
you know, if anything, if we had to like
move out of the way of any alien
spacecraft like we would know it, which
is on the surface of it kind of an
absurd thing. He's a very smart guy.
Yeah.
Right.
And people just accept that. Like that's
an absurd explanation. Like what are you
talking about? Like
Yeah.
Well, for one, like you're a tiny
satellite. Space is huge.
You're not going to have to like
navigate over just like an inert rock
that happens to be from an alien
civilization. You know how to navigate
into space. Like we launch stuff into
space all the time. Y
you don't have to move your satellites.
We figured that that out. I would assume
any advanced intelligence wouldn't have
to navigate, wouldn't just be like, "Oh,
I'm gonna run into that thing. Please,
Starlink, move out of the way." Right?
Just an absurd statement, right? As if
he thinks and he's a smart guy, right?
It's like, "What are you talking about,
man?" And then more recently, he's he's
he was asked a question about legacy
programs at like a town hall thing when
Trump campaigning for Trump
and he said, um,
well, you know, if US government has
interesting technology, they should make
it available.
I saw that. He walked it back. that that
was a big that's an important line in
the sand from previous comments, right?
So I think I think he's in an
interesting position. Um so this is a
bit more speculative very speculative on
me but um uh you know Howard Hughes of
course you know similar figure to Elon
in many ways like eccentric genius
outsized personality connected to
defense intelligence you know this is
like you know a larger than life figure
in the 50s and 60s. Um but he was like
deeply connected to the Mormon church.
The Mormon church kind of like the uh
his like senior managers and handlers
for all of his his corporate apparatus
were essentially Mormon. Um they call
him the Mormon mafia, right? Their two
brothers, Frank Gay, I think the other
guy. And um they actually towards as as
Howard Hughes kind of lost a grip on
reality, they kind of took over his
affairs, right? And this was the same
group that was doing all the covert
actions for the CIA, the Lamar Explorer,
etc. And potentially even doing the hits
on Kennedy,
both Kennedys, by the way.
Yeah. And you know this is a whole
separate tangent of like you know we
think about our current state
institutions as being highly
depersonalized you know a religious
aactional just you know appointees with
technocratic competence etc but that's
kind of naive right like American
history is complicated and there's you
know there are other institutional
forces that sometimes have a little bit
more inroup loyalty and solidarity and I
think the Mormon church and the Mormon
um you know businesses uh uh and
political um structures are quite quite
coh and have endured over 150 years,
longer than the CIA, for example, has
been around. And that, for example, the
Mormon
uh
uh community set up shop in Utah. They
wanted to create their own state, right?
Our own sort of theocratic state. Um
Joseph Smith actually may have been
assassinated by agents of the
government. There might be part people
of, you know, he was trying to campaign
essentially for president. Um and like
convert our civil our society, our our
our constitutional government to like a
kind of a sort of a democratic
theocratic sort of halfway. Um and they
wanted to set up their own state in
Utah. They had their own constitutional
convention and it convert turned into
this sort of state state constitution.
Um and uh they called it Desireette was
going to be the state of of Utah. This
is a long tangent to say the the Elon
connection is Elon's like basically like
sort of handler like his like the man
who manages all of his affairs. He's
like sits on the board of XAI, sits on
the board of Neuralink or is the
president I think of Neuralink. um
manages his family office, manages all
his Bitcoin and other crypto
transactions. Um started and run a
private security company for him. H
handles basically most of his, you know,
he's his p he's his personal fixer. He's
got his Jared Birchall.
Um
he's comes out of he's like a Mormon
elder. He's this guy. Um and it's just
like a interesting symmetry, right,
between this industrial techno
technological kind of industry titan.
Uhhuh. just happens to have like most of
his life's affairs, his business affairs
being managed by, you know, a guy who's
very well connected in the Mormon
community.
And that's almost like, you know,
isomeorphic to the Howard Hughes story
in many ways. And if you look into, you
know, the Mormon church, um, I mean,
again, nothing against the any relig any
religion, but like
they have been really successful at
essentially penetrating most of our
intelligence system because what like
like what is the Mormon community really
good at, right? They generate lots of
like children and they train they train
them in multiple languages. They send
them out in missions around the world.
They don't do drugs. They don't do
alcohol. They're very like they're very
loyal to an ingroup. They respect
hierarchy. It's exactly what like a CIA
officer, FBI officer, NSA person is
going to be like,
yeah,
you know, that's like a excellent
recruit. And that's exactly what's
happened. Like FBI's talked about how
like Brigham Young is like their top
source. Um
Yeah. They said Mormons, Marines, and
MBAs.
Yes. And what was interesting, so Utah
data center, it's now declassified this
code name. What the NSA set up then the
largest sort of single data center in
Utah back in the 2005s, something like
that. And the code name for it was
Bumblehive.
And Bumblehive is essentially this was
the symbol of Desireette.
Um, so there's some weird stuff there,
right? And if you actually look into
Mormonism, it's kind of a UFO religion.
Oh, for sure. Earth is not the only
habit.
If it had a UFO religion, that would be
it.
100%. Right. Um, and you know, Joseph
Smith has contacts, gets downloads,
codifies those into essentially a system
of rules.
He's leading his flock to establish a
political order
and then they become, you know, deeply
embedded in, you know, the structures of
our int of our intelligence and security
apparatus. And, you know, are then any
any big figure that we can, you know,
like why is Howard Hughes and and Elon
happen to all be connected to a similar
Mormon control system? I I don't know.
It's it's very interesting and it's um I
don't know what dots to to to connect
there. There's just facts uh to stitch
together,
but also like the Mormon church and the
you know associated institutions, they
they have a lot of money. A ton of
money.
Yeah. Like hundreds of billions of
dollars, right? Because everyone ties,
but also they're really good investors
and they just have really close-knit
business relationships that are globing,
right? So everyone's focused on the
Carlile group and everyone else is like,
"Okay, but like
the Carile group's not been around that
long." Like most finance, you know,
elites, they don't have a whole lot of
like
again, they want to get rich, they want
to get powerful, right? But like it's
hard to sustain like a generational
project like that. It tends to decay,
tends to split. This isitudes of, you
know, international finance and business
deals, right?
The Mormon church though, they've been
around for a while. They got a lot of
money.
They've got a clear ideological, you
know, vision that they all share, codes
of conduct, interpersonal bonds that,
you know, they don't violate, right?
like you know it's well known that if
you're a Mormon you show up to a city
like you can kind of you can kind of get
in right if you're one of the tribe it's
like it's you know it's like you're one
of us right
so those are those are features of human
society right that are very strong right
and that are you know despite the the
more impersonal sense that we're
constructing institutions like
intelligence bureaucracies that are
impersonal and a religious well they
exist in a social millu with other
institutions right and they can be
vulnerable to, you know, different, you
know, loyalty loyalties being tested and
compromised over time.
I don't exactly know how that's played
out, but like you just have to look at
American society. I think it's it's an
odd blind spot that we don't think about
the role. I mean, could be very
positive. I'm not saying it's negative
or positive. It just is a fact of our
political economy
that we have like a religious
institution that controls hundreds of
billions of dollars of capital that also
has, you know, more than almost any
other single group probably put more,
you know, seated more people into our
intelligence bureaucracies for decades,
right? And just also happens to be
strongly associated with our leading
technologists over over the 20 20th and
21st centuries.
I don't know. It's like with the James
Simons thing. I have no like there's no
smoking gun there. It just seems like a
curious thing, right? Seems something to
be, you know, interested in, right? I
don't know.
It's a very interesting fact pattern.
Well, um, when it comes to the science
stuff, you had like, you know, an
interesting possible theory of
everything with this kind of, you know,
upstream, uh, hyperraph and and, you
know, Gerard and Wolf Ram. Uh, what
about kind of more local anomalies or
like discoveries possibly midentury? So,
like the towns of Brown example I
mentioned that we've we've talked about.
Another one would be like a more
extended version of electronamics
involving you know there's always talks
of like a scalar field or whatever. Um
you know do do you have conviction in
any of these things? You mentioned
nutrinos like nutrino information
transfer I don't know would be maybe
another one.
There might be some cool stuff that and
I don't rule any of that out. Um
and like the nutrino one I'll just say
is interesting because um you know
nutrinos are particle doesn't very
weakly interacts with normal matter but
doesn't doesn't not interact with
matter. We build detectors, you know,
heavy water and the Arctic to get like
little flashes and these photo
multiplier tubes that, you know, gives
like, you know, one out of every, you
know, 400 quadrillion nutrinos actually
hits and creates a detection. Um, but
that's just like that's coming from the
sun and kind of in this amorphous, you
know, spray of nutrinos. It's possible.
I haven't really done the math. Maybe
ask on this is like if you were able to
construct a really tight high intensity
beam of nutrinos so that the density of
the nutrinos is like many many orders of
magnitude higher than otherwise would be
and you develop a really sensitive
detector. Well, then you can send a
signal through any any basically through
the earth, right? Which would be really
useful for something like for example if
you're trying to ensure you have like
redundant redundant redundant nuclear
control communications. If your
satellites are down, all your
terrestrial communications are down, but
you really want to ensure that the sub
other side of the earth can get the go-k
physically impossible to me. You really
need to run the numbers and do the
engineering and, you know, figure it
out. It doesn't seem impossible to use,
you know, essentially a nutrino beam
fired through the earth and if it's
sufficiently high intensity and you have
a sufficiently sensitive detector, um,
that you could transmit information that
way, transmit, you know, launch goods or
other things. uh it probably wouldn't be
high bandwidth in general would be like
Starlink, but like for you know certain
certain information communication
requirements. So I think there's certain
aspects like that um that don't to me
don't seem like physically implausible.
There's other things like scalar fields.
I don't know uh I'm not as I don't have
like a strong opinion on scalar fields,
scalar weapons. Yep.
This whole domain I don't know I'm sort
of agnostic. There's a part of it which
is like
if there was enough lowhanging fruit
that is just like a small tweak to say
Einstein's field equations.
It's hard to believe that somebody
wouldn't have figured that out by now.
Yep.
Right. That some people there's a
there's maybe a torsion term in
Einstein's field equations that we
normally ignore.
That's Ellie Carton thing.
Yeah. That maybe there's and that's been
a lot of what has been a kind of like
unconventional physics approaches is
usually taking generalativity and like
looking for like weird variations of it,
right? What if there was an extra term
here that introduced a new field or
there's a new degree of freedom here and
what would that mean? And that's fine,
but like the interesting thing about the
Einstein field equations is that they're
actually quite going back to the Gard
thing. It's actually not that surprising
that you're that he was able to uh
regenerate or kind of generate uh the
field equations out of this sort of
limit of this discrete model is because
the Einstein field equations turn out to
be kind of like with very minimal
constraints on a certain uh how you
define you know a certain topological
structure with a certain metric
structure like the Einstein field
equations are just what you have to get.
Yeah.
Right. They're almost like the natural
the most natural description of of the
metric structure of a a very general
class of of sort of manifolds. And so
they're not that special. Um, and
therefore they kind of allow many
different permutations. There's many
different like little bells and whistles
you can kind of add to the Einstein
field equations that would, you know,
give you maybe different fields,
different degrees of freedom. And it's
possible that there are experiments that
you could do that would allow you to
figure that out. I wouldn't rule it out,
but I haven't done like the deep dive
enough to know whether
you know
whether that's plausible enough. But
it's like to me that's more just like a
it's a it reminds me a bit of like the
toic epicycles which is you know dancifi
field equations are very simple very
clean they explain a very general class
of phenomenon you want to explain UFOs
and so you're looking to be like what
bells and whistles can I add to this
simple conceptual structure that I can
sort of allow me to explain this
anomalous phenomenon right how could I
like engineer the spaceime metric or
could zip around using you know scalar
fields or something it it seems a bit
clunky. It seems a bit cluji. It seems a
bit like you're looking for the answer
that you wanted to get
to to get more specific than that, which
I agree is sort of lazy thinking. One,
you know, thing that might have happened
that like Weinstein spoke about, Eric
Weinstein spoke about on Rogan is,
you know, 1957 Chapel Hill conference,
you know, quantum gravity gets
established and there's an Austrian
mathematician present named Herman
Bondi. And he brings up this question of
like what about all these anomalies that
might occur if you had theoretical
existence of negative mass or negative
energy, which is was, you know, totally
theoretical at the time. And if you
didn't have the positivity conditions
and you take into account these
theoretical, you know, energy and mass,
you know, negative energy, negative
mass, you would get all sorts of weird
anomalous effects that like we wouldn't
be able to predict with, you know, the
Einstein field equations that do include
uh, you know, these positivity
conditions. So if you were to put a
governor on physics, it might be these,
you know, positivity conditions. Then in
like I think the 90s we figure out this
the kasmir effect which I'm pretty sure
now is like consensus physics right that
like there are these I guess you know
there is this zero point and there are
these uh quantum you know uh
fluctuations in the field that like
would bring two non-conductive plates
closer together because of this this
sort of you know negative energy force
or whatever
and so that brings up this question you
know and then you look at Miguel
Alcubieri which everybody talks about
alubi warp drives this, you know, uh,
solution for Einstein faster than light
travel, you know, given general
relativity and it involves negative mass
and negative energy.
And so, yeah, is there something there?
But the ability to harness something
like the kasmir force for propulsion,
it's interesting. I've seen certain
again I'm not like a professional
physicist so it's like I try to read
people and it's like I think the kasmir
effect is one that's hard to
um I don't know if you could extract
useful work because you can get
essentially the vacuum pressure but
because if you put two circuit plates
you know in the absence the vacuum will
emit any mode of sort of spontaneous
quantum uh sort of virtual particle
pairs but when you impose this boundary
condition of two conducting plates
you're eliminating you know a whole set
of possible modes and therefore there's
kind of less energy in between the two
plates, more energy outside the plate.
That's a negative pressure. Maybe you
could extract more.
Um that's kind of the basic premise of
it. Um
I don't know. I don't know if you could
actually like if that if there's any
like so one interesting thing about
general relativity that most people
don't understand is that it's not it
doesn't conserve energy globally, right?
It only conserves energy locally.
There's no such actual thing as like
global universal scale energy
conservation and general activity. And
so there there may be loopholes, right?
That's the thing is like are there
loopholes, right? There may be loopholes
because general activity is is you know
it doesn't require um you know local it
doesn't require global energy
conservation. So maybe there are tricks
you can exploit. Um but we don't really
understand what negative energy really
means. And in I always try to come back
to like my best you know current
thinking about what the models are to to
use to answer this question like the the
hyperraph you know models are
essentially energy um in those models
essentially is the um you here's like a
surface you know like you're just
foliating the the the causal graph.
Energy is a measure of the number of of
of causal edges going through that
surface, right? Um and then momentum is
just the inverse. It's the number of um
causal edges if you orient it in the
time length direction versus the
space-like direction. And that's
actually how you then construct the
Einstein field equations with the stress
energy tensor is because you need to
have measures of energy in in a discrete
structure. And so there like energy is a
is a is a discreetly defined measure on
this on this graph structure. It's not
like this ineffable thing just like an E
in an equation. It's like the number of
edges going through an arbitrary um sort
of uh sort of hypersurface. And so then
his question is like what is a negative
energy in that in that in that? Well, in
in this concept there's such thing as
like an absolute measure of energy,
right? Energy is always a relational
quantity because there's no global
measure of energy. Energy is always a
relative reference frames. And so it's
like can you construct a certain way of
foliating these hyperservices so that
from one inertial frame you've got
essentially access to an energy gradient
right that is negative from your from
your perspective right so it's like
there is no such thing as positive or
negative energy there's just you know in
the local reference frame that you
happen to be you know constructing for
yourself for whatever crazy technology
you've got can you you know essentially
you know engineer a ne like a relative
negative gradient to like the number of
causal edges that are in your future um
in in your causal future ly I don't know
that would be the how you'd have to do
it so I don't know so as far as like you
have to look at the fundamental physics
theory and be like is that ruled out
right like general relativity
is not the fundamental physics theory
right
so you can construct models of general
relativity where yeah there's a there's
different terms there's different
components there's different um you know
states that you could potentially you
know allow within that broad that broad
very cons very self-consistent framework
but does that mean that those physically
realizable in our universe,
right?
Well, you be like, well, no, we need to
know what the actual fundamental theory
of physics is for our universe.
Yeah.
And then do those admit of these types
of capabilities.
Yeah. So I don't rule it out because we
don't have the fundamental theory, but I
think it's kind of like the level where
we're talking about these um you know
vacuum engineering sorts of descriptions
that I think of as like a higher level
description like those might be fully
consistent with like a a bottomup you
know Gardian view like they might meet
somewhere in the middle here where it's
like actually it turns out yeah like
there are certain special conditions
that are that emerge in the sort of
hyperraph vision of things that do get
you uh systems that look like they're
consistent with say vacuum engineering,
right? But the vacuum metric engineering
is just like a higher level or a
mid-level description here. Um, so it's
possible this is like
and then going back to the historical
story, it is quite suspicious that like
there was all this work on grav on on
gravity specifically and all this stuff
you pointed to in your previous videos,
it's like there's something there like
like they were looking at it seriously.
They were clearly exploring it. Um, and
I have like two interpretations. Like I
think it's very clear to me that US
government has been conducting secret
fundamental physics research. Like
that's pretty obvious to me. Like you'd
have to be really
naive to think that the federal
government, the intelligence community,
you know, just forgot the lesson of
World War II that like, oh, we took all
the smartest physicists, threw threw
them into a secret project, and we won
global war.
Great. Go about your business, guys.
Like, we're just gonna set we're gonna
shut shut this down. you know, go back
to your normal ivory tower academic jobs
and write papers and you know, we'll
call you in the next war. What's the
answer then to the Weinstein
counterpoint to that where he's like
where are all the smart like all the
Nemar Connie this you know all these
naming all these people he's like why
aren't they in the program you know
what's going on is Ed Whitten in the
program you know like
it is a good question um and I don't
know like you'd have to I don't know
what the base rate measure is of like
super smart people right and like
whether
whether the academic production of of
theoretical physicists is the only
pipeline for such talent that you can
imagine existing.
Like if you really have decades to set
up alternative programs to spot talent
when they're 12 or 13 years old through
you know standardized academic testing
you understand who the prodigies are
before they make it to
college or even PhD programs like you
know I think Eric has a model of like
there's an existing cohort of trained
practical theoretical physicists that
exist in the discipline and the US
government is just like we found a UFO
come help us figure it out. Yep. Right.
I think maybe alternative model is like
they had that stuff well before modern
academic theoretical physics formed as a
discipline, right?
And there are academic affiliate
programs kind of everywhere. I mean MIT
being MIT super soldier program being
like one example, but like
oh and like really smart people do very
classified research and don't talk about
it. Um and it's just you know to think
you have like the Harvard faculty has a
monopoly on you know 160 IQs that can
you know spend two years reading fun
physics journals like it's not that
hard. Yeah, totally. And you go back to
these declassified CIA memos and you're
like the outpost for exotic gravity
research. In certain cases it was like
Indiana, Purdue, like it was it wasn't
necessarily I mean there Princeton and
and MIT were also named but like it's
it's not always you know who you might
assume you know is sort of the the the
tip of the spear as far as
I look at like J Simons we talked about
like
nobody really knows how many people he's
got working for him and like
his pipeline could be scaled in
probably two three five 10x and would
like who would really know y
right especially if he's not targeting
mid-career or you coming out of grad
school, but he's able to spot like for
example Harold Mgrren, he was spotted
when he was like 12 or 13 years old.
That's wild. 12 or 13.
Yeah.
And he was going to give he was going to
be he was asked to come to MIT when he
was like a you know early teen and he
forever family reasons he couldn't do
it. So he ended up going to Renelier
Polytechnic and then was given a full
ride in lateral to Yale um and then was
sort of entered into the the system from
there. Right. But he was tapped from it
was the MIT president actually tapped
him and
were you spotted Matthew? Not that I
know. I know. I mean, who knows? But
like, you know, we had the gifted and
talented programs, right? I did that,
right? Went to Johns Hopkins. Um.
Oh, you did that? Yeah.
You know, who knows? Uh, you know,
you know, I did that too back in the
day. I Yeah. Interesting.
We That's where the plan that's what
that's what.
So, we had chips embedded in our brain,
you know. I was like, the juice boxes,
you know, then like wait, I did take
naps. Like, what was happening there?
Um, so yeah, but like that's the thing
is like if you're going to manage a
program that's fundamental like this is
the thing it sounds conspiracy like I
like first principles
if I'm a senior defense intel bureaucrat
in like the late 1940s and I'm like all
right we won the war
all the physicists helped us win it. It
was kind of like by the skin of our
teeth. The Nazis were like neck and neck
right like a year it would have been a
close run thing. We can't let that
happen again. Right. We just happen to
have all these smart German physicists,
these Jews that were fleeing the Nazis
that came here, right? It's like we had
Einstein, we had Oenhe, we had all these
guys, you know, that were, you know, uh,
you just kind of got lucky, right? That
we happened to have access to this
talent and then we could wet it to our
industrial system and like go all
systems go. Um, but they'd be like, "All
right, we can't that was like an ad hoc
kind of like got a bit lucky sort of
thing. We can't we need to systematize
this formal formalize We need to ensure
that we have the most talented
individuals in our society identified
and steered where we can into positions
where we can leverage them for the most
strategic national security purposes,
which the lesson of World War II is the
most strategic national security um you
know domain is fundamental physics,
right? Whoever whoever figures out the
next trick in fundamental physics can
design potential worldchanging weapons.
that just seems like bureaucratic um
negligence of the highest order if they
didn't put in place a systematic program
to identify and identify and recruit in
various ways talent to help ensure that
fundamental physics research could be
conducted in secret for the US
government. Like that would be like my
baseline expectation, right? Seems like
an absurd thing because of course Eric
is a smart guy. He's like, I see no
evidence of this. Well, they've had a
lot of time to p to keep this secret and
it doesn't require that many people,
right? It's not going to be like an and
a bunch of nerds sitting in a room
somewhere doing math is not going to
like show up on much not make much of
not going to make much of a footprint.
Totally.
And it's not they're going to publish
anything.
Uh so it's you know again how so this is
where it's me mechanic mechanistically I
would expect such a sort of set of
programs to have been put in motion.
It's a whole different question to
assess well how successful have they
been right because they could set up all
this apparatus. the government can be is
really good at creating these programs,
making them really secret, funding them
over many years, but they're not that
good at actually stimulating creative
innovation, right? So, you know, then
this kind of explains to me why you have
these cases like like uh like Ning Lee
or whatever, like folks that are clearly
doing like breakthrough research on the
margins of some interesting subjects
and then they get sort of
poof, they disappear. And is it because
is there two explanations? One is the
government knows that, oh, there might
be an independent reproduction of a
breakthrough that they already have and
they want to make sure nobody else sees
it. Or they um they want to basically
take anything that could potentially
touch on this secret research area and
and bring it in, but they actually
haven't made much progress. So, this
doesn't really tell me one way the other
where they've actually made much
progress in like
either a theoretical fundamental
breakthrough or an engineered
application of fundamental breakthrough.
I think you can assume they have these
programs and they've gotten nowhere.
Yeah, it I mean it just what you're
saying makes total sense because I think
you know if this stuff was housed in the
Manhattan project, you know, before the
setup of maybe some sort of distributed
recon system or whatever to track, you
know, young prodigies,
uh it seemed like the destructiveness of
science and tech was just going as at
the time. And so to like not clamp down
with safeguards as far as you know both
uh being able to recruit uh but also
being able to quickly hide you know what
you're working on that that that would
seem like this big national security
priority right
and we have recent evidence like again
hearsay but Andre Horowitz and Ben
Horitz had this meeting and they
reported back with the National Security
Council senior staff and an individual
on that National Security Council said
we have classified entire areas of
fundamental physics before don't think
we can do the same for AI. This was in
rejoinder to
uh Andre Horwood saying you can't
classify AI as just math.
Yep.
And they're like you bet you bet we can.
We did it before.
Yep.
It's like
there you go guys.
And I think there's like a Rand Corp
initiative to like basically have like a
g global control system over compute
because of the AGI race. And there might
be an interesting connection on like
Rand Corp and some of the more secret
science or tech when it comes to
propulsion and that sort of thing. I
don't know if you've thought about that.
I I had a convers I've tweeted about
this so I I I guess I should say it now
because it's public but like be careful
how much details I give but I had a
conversation
over a year ago. I forget exactly when
go back to my Twitter. um probably
coming up on a year ago now with a
former very senior Department of Defense
individual and you know we we had been
chatting about lots of different
subjects and again kind of UAPs came up
and um this individual described having
a meeting with uh with Arrow and this
individual was responsible for um
managing large collections of SAPs uh
including those that touched on AI stuff
including other things
and you know this person has been around
the block in terms of, you know, even
when you're getting a top secret SEI
briefing on a particular program. Um,
when they give these similar briefings
on their SAPs, they regularly give
[__] briefings at the highest level
of classification to others.
Mhm.
You know, that's just that's just the
game, right? If you don't need to know,
you don't need to know. But the
existence of such a program is something
that's hard to keep secret. So, you give
a [__] briefing. when he was sitting
on the at the Arrow briefing, it was
like that was the perception that this
was the [__] briefing.
Game recognized game was the quote
basically. And we got a bit further into
it and they said, um, you know, it's a
triangle,
AI, quantum, and the grush stuff.
That was it. And we were, you know, in
an environment where I couldn't I didn't
want to press too much into the issue.
You know, I didn't have it wasn't like
this sort of sit down where it's like we
could go for hours. Um, so that was
basically where it where it sort of
landed. Um, and I've been chewing on
that for a while,
you know, AI, quantum, and the grush
stuff.
That's wild. That's super interesting.
My mind's going crazy now. That's
And you can imagine, I mean, all those
different ways you could permute that,
right? Quantum you can interpret as
quantum computing.
Yeah.
Or you can interpret quantum as like
more like quantum weird spooky
consciousness stuff.
Yeah.
Uh or something else. materials
or Yeah. or quantum quantum materials.
Quantum Yeah. Just he just said quantum
AI quantum and in the government like
quantum is usually used as like a catch
all for all that stuff.
Yeah.
Right. Well, not the conscious but like
quantum sensing, quantum computing, you
know, quantum cryptography etc. Um so I
don't know this but this there clearly
is a sense and this is why AI is
becoming important is like you know the
the program that Michael Shelonburgger
wrote about he might even be testifying
in Congress next week about it. you
know, apparently is using AI to
identify, you know, UAPs and maybe even
ARVs, uh, because a characteristic
morphology and we have lots of sensors
and we're saying, okay, we need to and
if AI is becoming much more
decentralized and a capability that is
in the private sector, well, that would
be a problem, right? Um, so there might
be a lot of technological trends that
are underway that are just going to make
keeping us in the bottle just almost imp
like you know, much more difficult. Um
there's also the you know more abstract
or like you know um speculative which is
okay you know any arbitrary form of
intelligence is likely going to share
like kind of be coming from a different
spot in the real multiverse to
communicate in the multiple in the real
multiverse you need to share concepts
like concepts are the bridge
or like that's actually the category
theoretic like um transportation measure
like the distance measure in real space
is like your conceptual um so like we
are really close space people that come
from different languages are a little
bit fur apart but they otherwise are
close together because of their common
history and so in assembly theory you
can see this is like they share a common
ancestor but only they recently branched
right so they only haven't gone too far
in real space so like you can do
translation between Chinese and English
pretty well right there's certain
concepts in Chinese you can't easily map
to English and vice versa right just
that's just the nature of trying to do
you know essentially translation you
know there's not complete translation
and variance in real space between
different you know
between different cognitive systems but
an arbitrary intelligence coming from
that has an entirely different assembly
history is likely not going to be that
close to us in real space. So, but what
are AI systems really good at is
basically helping to explore and
translate through real space, right?
That's why we now using AI systems to
try to like decode dolphin and like
whale sounds, right? is because there's
they're really good at basically in this
sort of very multi-dimensional vector
space identifying what are those
patterns of regularity and then you know
creating like a a map of what the the
conceptual structure inside that that
representational space is and then
figuring out okay is there is there a
certain mapping that I can go from that
internal representational system to
human representational systems it's like
what is the whale equivalent of like
friend
you know might be there probably is a
plausible way of of de developing an
encoding essentially between human
concepts and and and whale concepts,
right? And that would be probably like
one of the top priorities, right? Of
course, we have the movie Arrival. It's
like the top priority is like trying to
develop an encoding system between human
concepts and NHI concepts,
right? And AIs will be very important
maybe have been extremely important in
developing such an encoding, right? Um
and it's probably no secret or no
surprise that like you know the the guy
the co-founder of Renaissance was Robert
Mercer. Mercer invented basically large
language models
and applied those along with other you
know the leading they were leading most
of the AI stuff basically and making all
that money using some of it and doing
semantic analysis like you know
they didn't have the transformer
architecture back then but they were
doing all sorts of crazy advanced AI
stuff
um so that would be the exactly team
with skills you would apply to being
like we've got
we're getting communications we're not
quite sure how to trust them right and
the NSA is really you know their job is
to like do decryption right um
and you can almost think about Like
decryption is basically the same thing
as like funal physics in some way,
right? Like you're you're getting you
get a certain you know like the univer
the universe is like this unfolding
computation that's computationally
irreducible to any given observer that
can't inspect all of its microates. And
so there's some core screening that core
screening function is essentially is
like an encryption. It's like our models
are like encryptions of of the
underlying pattern of the world, right?
And then we're trying to when we do
physics we're trying to like you know
decrypt right those representations. we
like a naive representation of the
universe. We're trying to decrypt what
the like the underlying you know you
know factor was that generated that
phenomenon.
And so the NSA is really good at doing
those sorts of things. So there's a lot
of overlap between the kinds of research
and technologies and skills you would
need to like understand the the NHI
problem that are way beyond just like
you know engineering topological
materials right you'd want to be able to
communicate be able to trust the
communication
be able to you know understand what
sorts of
you know concepts are embedded and what
sorts of social information is embedded
in those concepts
right like you know we can maybe learn a
lot about how like whale social
structure actually works by decoding
their concepts right like how close is
the friend an enemy or food source. You
know, these different interesting
concepts we might be able to get anchors
on. How close are they to each other?
Might be like interesting observations
that you could discern by studying those
sorts of linguistic categories. You're
making me think of the Danny Shehan
story where he's taken into a skiff in
Washington at the behest of the Carter
administration to review the blue book
files on all these UFOs and he claims he
sees a picture high definition picture
of a UFO crashed into a mountaintop and
he traced the photo and drew all these
like bizarre kind of hieroglyphic
looking symbols and I'm wondering if we
could use AI on that w with some maybe
symbolic conventions or something. I
mean, this is where it gets quite weird
because you're if you assume there's
some interaction, right? And most of the
first person accounts have been, you
know, you know, non non-recordable
interactions, right? Just like, you
know, ineffable, you're destroying the
planet, nukes are bad, you know,
danger's coming, right? Sort of tropey
stuff. Um but you know that seems a bit
like are there other more definitive you
know forms of of information like
records that have been deposited right
or or or given or or or encodings from
certain signals that we've been able to
translate um or be able to write down
right
um like the f I can imagine like this
pro program if you really like imagine
it's like possible full branches right
there's like the biological piece
there's the hardware physical science
material science piece fundamental
physics for propulsion etc piece.
There's the xenol linguistics piece, the
sort of socioultural, you know, aspect
of that. There be like all these
different branches, right? Imagine
you're trying to study human society,
right? It's like you would have it all,
right? You look for all the artifacts
you could. You'd look for all the maybe
unintended signals that we would be
sending to try to understand. So there'd
be a massive program, but all be
compartmentalized into all these
different domains. and you you know AI
would be really important to help you
synthesize and integrate and develop
hypotheses for for for that research
project right so maybe that's what he
was pointing at right is
and you need you need some sort of
immaculate constellation to quarantine
some of the comms both from a kind of
you know physical perspective if there
are crashed UFOs but also yeah the comms
going on between people and that sort of
thing
yeah and and then there'd be the you
know there'd be the the basic
intelligence function AI I could help
and there's going to be the very
important counter intelligence function,
right? Um, and there's some weird
stories that have been coming out
recently of just how like in general
like the government is usually like
several steps ahead of the private
sector. I think in generative AI they're
probably not, but that doesn't mean
they're not ahead in certain
certain areas that are applications of
AI. it could be quite far ahead um that
are more unique to like you know
government use cases like the government
is not going to invest a whole lot in
deli not a whole lot in like a chatbot
right there's just not a function that's
going to align to any government
function that's going to get the R&D
but there are you know things people are
naive to think that the private sector
just happen to explore the most advanced
um part of the tech tree right certainly
they explored a part of the tech tree
that happens to be very uh
infrastructure uh energy intensive um
the government because it has to be
secret probably would would discount
those branches because we can't build
200 mill$200 billion dollars worth of AI
in you know infrastructure to train the
next models like we got to keep this
secret so we would look for other
transformer non-transformer
architectures probably to explore and we
have time to like you know test those
out without you know the competitive
race with open AI to like oh we got
something that work like now we're stuck
we got to like basically scale this up
and keep training a bigger bigger model
um this is all to say I think people
assume that like regards to AI that that
open AI and anthropic are like much
further ahead than anyone else.
And I think it might be there might be
orthogonal vectors here for certain
applications and certain certain um
architectures. Uh and again it's like
you assume fundamental physics research
could be done in secret. It's like well
it could be fundamental AI research
that's done in secret right it's like as
soon as this is identified as a
requirement there's a pipeline there's a
there's an SOP there's a process there's
a structure this would you know this is
what I would I would hope is happening.
Um, but then it's not just us. Chinese,
the Russians, um, others maybe. And the
Chinese have gotten really good at doing
some of these NAR applications for their
social surveillance purposes and other
things.
And those are are there's like weird
things happening now with people. Uh,
you know, being really good at
manipulating individuals online, right?
Being really good at, you know,
generating humanlike um, interactions in
certain ways. Um, and that would be, you
know, a way of kind of distorting our
internal conversations on subjects like
like you at peace, right? So, I think
the the this is like a convergence of
these different trends of like
disclosure on the one hand, but also the
ability of society to like sense make.
Yes.
Is like being degraded almost at the
same pace.
Yes.
So, I do wonder if we get to a point
where like yeah, the government goes,
"Yeah, we're actually going to come out
with everything." But like the basic
ability of you know society what we call
society to
process that in something like a
consistent fashion could just be
rendered
obsolete. On that note where do you
think the UFO conversation goes from
here? Cuz there's there I mean there are
two camps. One is
you know if we were having this
conversation 40 50 years ago and we were
kind of invested in the issue it
probably would have been the wrong
investment right like not a lot
happened. Uh and then the other camp is
things seem to be kind of unraveling
quickly and snowballing and so yeah
where do you think things go from here?
This is the tough question. I I don't
think it's going back in the bottle. Um
I think I think we will be facing more
disruption recognition
information
soon.
Mhm.
Um you know I take the title of Lu
Alzando's book seriously.
Yep.
Right. He doesn't say that for a reason.
And he's given other remarks that, you
know, indicate this is this is not
something you're going to be just like a
kick the can for decades. Yeah. Right.
I I I I do not though fall into the camp
of like there's a 2027 clock and yeah,
they're showing up, right? That's I've
heard that and people have said that is
like, you know, word got around that
they're going to come up and show up in
2027 and this is why we need to, you
know, get ready, get people prepared,
etc. I don't rule it out, but like that
seems like not the not not my baseline
scenario. Um, I think I see a
convergence of things that are now kind
of historically it's like it's like the
vibe, right? It's almost like there are
things that I know that people are
potentially going to come out and say
publicly, but is that going to be what
we call capital disclosure, right? It's
like who's paying attention? Who cares?
Right? Yeah, it's like information can
come out and come out either v
individuals in sort of a sto so
stotastic self-organized process and
they may have the professional bonafites
the historical experience the
credibility to get maybe the next
marginal increment of the population to
pay attention
and go what the hell right but we've had
a number of those people already right
it's just like we're kind of on this
ratchet which is like the haim sheds the
Canadian defense minister more recent
era you've had David Crush you've had
Lou you've got Carl Nell Chris like
these are not like household names But
they sort of we're climbing this ladder
here, right? And we've had suggestive
remarks come from multiple presidents
and it's this is like an accretion over
time and I think there will be I expect
there'll be more individuals of senior
caliber coming out and saying things but
I think it will be in alignment with an
evolving political process that I think
is nondeterministic right in the sense
that like the UAP disclosure act was
well you know one version of this kind
of control process but that was written
before people thought that Trump was
going to have a unified government and
is now going to have RFK into VC in
there and Elon in there doing truth and
reconciliation committees and like
opening up all the books on everything.
Y
like I'm sorry but like that's not like
those are just different those are very
diff distinct approaches to this and I
don't know if the UP disclosure act
process of having nine you know sort of
technocrats appointed by the president.
I mean I think that could still survive.
I think it's an important process
because you need to have an accountable
independent uh procedure here. But if
I'm just making a forecast like it's
likely going to be messier than what
that process originally envisioned,
right? Just
um I don't know. We'll see. I don't know
how but like VC I know is very
interested in the subject. JD is very
interested in the subject.
Um Elon seems to have changed his tune a
bit.
Uh RFK is very interested in the
subject. Trump has obviously talked
about it. Mhm.
So, where this sits in there, like how
they're going to manage this, who like
it's like who they going to sign this
problem, right? That's that's be the big
question. And then is this a is this a
should we try to get appointments?
I don't know, man. You want the red dot
in your head. Um,
probably not. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, better to be behind the camera
than, you know, uh,
the guy actually doing stuff as far as
disclosing. Yeah, that's probably right.
I mean it's interesting like the the the
control disclosure campaign plan would
set up this UAP records review board and
that records review board would be have
all the status of an ex uh executive
department agency obviously the subpoena
authority the uni lateral
declassification authority with
presidential override um but it would
also allow them to you know leverage the
capacities uh and authorities of the
federal acquisition regulation so they
could actually with a budget issue
contracts
so they could hire full-time staff and
have issue contracts to third party
adviserss to write reports and studies
and contribute to um you know expert
analysis on the various strands of the
these questions which would be
explicitly under their mandate to report
and make recommendations to the
president across all these instruments
of national power right that Carl Nell
has talked about and so that that is
like the that is like the standard you
know U like DC approach we got a tough
problem you know there's a hot potato
the Senate really doesn't want to have
to own it you know the house really
can't deal with it the executive branch
is kind of like you know looking into
its own backyard card and the NYSE is
you know relatively small and so we're
going to convene and then panel this
independent group it's going to be you
know president will obviously have veto
authority but it's going to basically
everyone gets to pass the hot potato to
this group so that that that logic might
still stand right because I could see
between the incoming administration that
same basic sense of like do I really
want this to come out but do I want to
own this hot potato do I want to like
navigate all this morass or do I want to
be like, I agree. We should have this
independent group over here of people
that I can recommend. They're kind of
like, you know, my friends and allies or
whatever, but like they do the hard work
and they dig with the messy stuff and
they get a budget and they get the
clearances and they get the contracts
and then that becomes an like a separate
more institutional apparatus to formally
go through this sort of thing and make
recommendations to, you know, President
Trump. Um I think it's I I would still
push for the UP disclosure act um versus
say some ad hoc VVC truth and
reconciliation committee that god knows
how that would be formalized and stood
up and structured and also like what
other things would be sort of stuffed
under its remit.
Mhm.
It would dilute its purpose, distract it
and politicize it potentially and I
think it's just better course of action
to just put the energy behind this
existing you know framework. I think it
doesn't matter who you appoint obviously
that's like you know this the structure
is there it's how you fill out that
structure like who gets appointed to
these positions if they if they pass
this law um under the new admin so we'll
see um but also there's the legacy folks
inside the house that you still have to
deal with right like the the Roger u the
Rogers and Turner um
and you know we'll see how much like in
general like an incoming administration
has lots of priorities and you know
certain reservoir of political capital
UFOs is not at the top of that list.
Well, that's the interesting thing. It's
like it's hard to say how it fits and
um you know, honestly, a path of leaf
resistance for them is to just kick the
kick it to an independent group, right?
Yeah.
Um because if they're going to go
through this dirty laundry, glasses
procedure, you might have to spend a lot
of your own executive political capital
like on like adjudicating every one of
those decisions on this record, this
thing, this program, this like where is
that line going to be drawn? It's like a
case by case. And that's a very it's a
it's that's a messy thing, right? I'm
not sure any of these people want to be
making those decisions or spending their
political capital fighting, you know,
god knows who, right? Whereas like, hey,
kick it over to this group, give them a
bunch of money, give them a clear
mandate,
let them deal with it and you kind of
are hands off to a certain extent and
then the important decisions you can
kind of airdrop in and you know, right,
put your thumb on the scale. Um,
so that would be I don't know preferred
scenario to play out here. Um I mean
there is a scenario where you know all
these folks come in and they've been
singing a certain tune. They go
disclosure, openness, glass notes, etc.,
etc., etc. Then they get shown whatever
it is.
Mhm.
And they go,
"Nah, sorry. Sorry guys. Nah, this whole
UFO thing, I don't know. That way we're
just we're good. Yeah,
we're good. Look over here." Right. I I
mean,
it's always the scenario you have to,
you know,
Yep. put onto your to the to the to the
to the to the table here because I don't
really know what's behind that curtain,
right? And whether there is something
that's just like,
yep,
nope, not going to talk about it, right?
We hear an awful lot of unnerving
stories from people like Jeremy Corbell
or Ross Coloulthart who are like
ostensibly talking to people on
legacy programs directly and like they
they all say the same thing. So they get
to a certain level in the conversation,
you know, whatever, and the person goes,
"If you knew what I know, you wouldn't
be procisure or something." You know,
some they sort of hint at some sort of
extremely onlogically shocking truth.
And I never know how to compute that.
It's this sort of, you know, uh, epis
epistemic impass if you're on the other
side of it where it's like I I don't
know. I That's why I actually think, you
know, the the control disclosure
campaign plan, sorry, I probably
butchered that. um is you know like you
almost need to shift human
consciousness, right? It sounds a bit
colloquial and woo woo, but it goes back
to earlier part of the conversation.
It's like you know we are we're embodied
creatures but we have certain mental
capacities in a certain you know folk
world like worldview
of what's possible what's not. Like the
immediate horizon of most people's lives
is very very you know forcehortened.
It's got to pay the rent, get the kids
up for school, you know, get through the
day. And you know, the job of a state is
to ensure that those background
functions of everyday life are not
subject to like radical volatility.
It's why we have a state is to ensure
that like I can get on the road in the
morning and get to work and my taxes are
paid and my school starts on time and
the teachers show up and it's like
that just needs to happen, right? Like
that's the first order of business as a
government, right? And so I do have
sympathy for anything that the
government could envision releasing to
the public that threatens those sort of
core, you know, lifelines of society.
It's like that's your job is to ensure
like that would be the government
essentially, you know, committing
Harakari, right? It be like just
abdicating its fundamental
responsibility. Um, and so this is where
the tension lies. And actually I think
you know the more that they can sort of
get out of their own hands into the p
into civil society to manage the better
cuz the government shouldn't be the
source of ontological truth for people.
The government shouldn't be like a
religious you know institution
interpreting the world for its citizens.
Like that's not the job of the
government to tell me like what the
capital T truth is like the nature of
reality or any of this. Like no like you
take my taxes you defend me. You keep
the lights on you know like do that
right? you're not I don't look to you to
like you know you're not the pope right
you're not you're not
but it's also not the job to suppress
the capital T truth unless that involves
some you know clear trade secret on the
national security front
but this is where I think the mandate
like this is more philosophical like
what is the what is the social contract
in America what is the form of
government we have the constitutional
republic and the understanding of the
framers that has been evolved over time
like
it's like there you know even if you're
originalist or you're you a flexible,
you know, kind of constitutionalist like
I don't think the National Security Act,
the Tic Energy Act, like can plausibly
or even morally be extended to non-human
intelligence fact of.
Yeah.
I just I fully it just reject that
wholesale that the fact of non-human
intelligence is it's not government
information like
existentially, legally, morally is not
not government information, right?
Other things like the existence of
advanced aerospace, propulsion systems,
material science breakthroughs, maybe
even theoretical physics research,
although that's that's that's
litigatable
uh are government information. Those can
be properly classified under under a
mandate where the authorities making
those determinations, you know, are
doing so in accordance with our legal
mechanisms for constitutional oversight
where, you know, we have procedures, we
have laws for secrecy and reporting to
Congress.
And it seems like on that front, we
clearly have a problem, right, that
needs to be cleaned up where these
programs have not been properly reported
to, you know, the cognizant oversight
mechanisms um in our system of
government. And it's just like yeah like
if you want to have a democracy the way
we think we have one you need to fix
that. Does that mean everything comes
out? No. But you need it means that
accountability objective clearly needs
some work to be done. And then it's the
disclosure objective where the
disclosure objective at least for me is
the fact of non-human intelligence if
that is known with high confidence by
the US government is illegitimately kept
from the public. That's just not
something they can keep secret. Um I
think there's no moral justification for
that. Right? Um even if it's like going
to be destabiliz depends on what you
say, right? It's not like, you know, you
could say yes, we're not alone. We're
we're studying it. We're going to
impanel these institutions, public,
private sector, civil society to really
understand it. Then you slowly would
leak out the sensitive information,
right? That's maybe more prudent. It
doesn't mean you release everything. It
But I think this uh omemer can no longer
I think be effectively sustained because
I think it won't be right. It's like
clear that either adversaries or private
sector or individuals from these
programs are going to keep pushing that.
Yep.
And then you're in this you're in this
uh you know uh game of no good choices
if you're if you're trying to ma manage
that that process of disclosure. It's
like you know you either get on board
with this controlled mechanism or it's
going to be
you know RFK you know coming in there
and just like tweeting out you know
everything you've been doing.
That's like I think the last few days I
know we're recording a few days after
the election. It is it is just like the
the shock wave is just like propagating
through, right? And I think we haven't
seen what this means for disclosure and
what different actors now throughout
these different systems that we're
modeling now have to radically adjust
their personal, you know, like
incentives here, right? Uh it's like
okay like you know there was a story
just about the FBI right like see like
off the record quotes from senior
officials at the FBI being like it was
like the kind of a a morbid joke that
was um you know the senior officials on
the whatever seventh floor um you know
they they they're they haven't passed
their fit test in a while but they're
going to need to to run out the door
essentially like there's an expectation
filtering through
just say the FBI as an example that it's
just going to be purged
purges wild,
right? And just so then carry that
through, right? These other different
structures and if that that is now
that's a radical change in the
institutional bureaucratic environment
that that the U that the UFO the UAP
disclosure conversation is now situated
in.
Well, it's fascinating because like
historically you have JFK saying I'm
going to scatter the CIA to the winds,
you know, being at loggerheads with
them.
You have Nixon saying he's going to fire
a third of the CIA or whatever. Maybe
that was a subnarrative for Watergate a
little bit. And then uh you have, you
know, similar stuff with Carter. Usually
it doesn't end well for like the
reforming president. But I've never seen
so much force and power on the side of
force reduction in bureaucracy as I do
today with Elon, RFK, this coalition of
like we [__] had it and like the
history of this country is way more
messed up than you know people realize.
We're going to like fire all these
people. So, I'm very curious to see how
this how this ends and if it's, you
know, history repeating itself or if you
know maybe maybe uh you do just see this
massive watershed moment.
Yeah. I mean, I think this is the the
tale of all this time, which is, you
know, how does this urge for reform not
be captured, right? Um and to what
extent, you know,
everyone has an agenda, right? Like
it's, you know, everyone's like, "Oh,
good guys, bad guys, right? the deep
state versus the uh you know Elon wonder
you know wonder team it's like everyone
is a flawed person everyone has an
agenda everyone's working everyone's
working an angle right question is you
know are the interests of civil society
and public accountability like those
higher level objectives are those being
met or not met by the actions of and
decisions made by each of those
different sides it's like
I don't have allegiance to any
particular team I have allegiance to
these higher level sort of social
political and moral objectives and so if
if anyone in particular decides to move
in a direction that's aligned with that,
I'm supportive. If they move against it,
then I'm not supportive, right?
And so, I think this is where it would
be important to watch and for folks that
are interested in, you know, pushing UP
disclosure to like hold people to
account, right? Regardless of your
particular team or tribe and be like, I
have a certain political objective. I
think we need to establish these
independent mechanisms of accountability
and transparency. You know, whoever's in
power, that's my expectation, right?
whether it's Elon or or or anybody else.
It's like this is my this is where I'm
going to hold you to um to to account.
So, you know, that's what we're heading
into now. It's going to be a lot of a
lot of things are now on the table and
it's going to be fascinating to see how
it all plays out.
Can't wait. Matthew Pines, this was
awesome. We could go on for hours. Uh
you mentioned before uh we we started
rolling that there might be a, you know,
a Federal Reserve in Bitcoin. We didn't
even get to that, which shows just how
much we had to discuss on UFO, secret
science, all the other fronts. But, uh,
I I hope we can do this again. And this
was an absolute blast, man.
Yeah. Anytime.
Cool. All right.
Thank you so much to Delete Me for
sponsoring this video. If you want to
remove your data from the internet, go
to the link in the description for 20%
off right